Sunny: Yeah, good evening to all of you. Give me a moment.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: I'm going to start with the session.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so let's begin, let's start. I hope I am visible to all of you. So…
Sunny: Just give me a quick confirmation.
Sunny: How was your Sunday?
Sunny: I think many of you are watching the cricket match, correct?
Sunny: India versus Pakistan.
Sunny: Hmm.
Sunny: FIFA World Cup.
Sunny: That's great.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so let's, begin. Yesterday, I think we were talking about the…
Sunny: preference tuning, right? So we have seen the entire practical and all everything.
Sunny: I'm audible, correct?
Sunny: Someone is saying, sir, you are not audible, but I can clearly see my output, microphone output, it is well and good.
Sunny: So just give me a quick confirmation if I am audible.
Sunny: Great.
Sunny: So, guys, yesterday, basically, we were talking about the preference tuning. So, I have shown you the complete practical and all everything.
Sunny: Now in today's session, what I'm thinking to cover… so yesterday I told you that I'm going to cover the theory of the Laura, Q Lora, and the other concept. But what I'm thinking, guys, to, cover the onslaught in the first place, okay?
Sunny: So, in today's session, let's discuss the onslaught, how we can, perform the fine-tuning using the unslot. So, whatever pipeline we have created using the hugging Face, right? So, how we can create a same kind of pipeline using the onslot. And after that, guys, I will come to the theoretical explanation about the LoRa, Q, LoRa, and the other one.
Sunny: Getting my point? Yes or no? So, guys, in today, in today's session, we are going to discuss about the onslaught. Why I am doing that? So that you will be aligned with the practical.
Sunny: Right? So, we have already completed a practical using the, hugging phase. Now, we can start with the onslaught, okay? It is not a very difficult one.
Sunny: If you know the practical with the hugging face, then you can do with the onslaught as well, okay? And, this, so today, basically, if I'm going to cover the onslaught, I think that would be the great one, instead of the theory of the Laura and Kilora, because again, I will have to start the practical with the same concept, with the same pipeline and all.
Sunny: So, to go with the unslot in today's session, I think that would be a good decision. So, we have already completed 3 stages of the fine-tuning using the hugging phase. Now, I will show you the same thing using the unslot as well. So, is it clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: It's becoming difficult to understand things without theory. No, there is no such a theory, right? So, LoRa is a very small concept. I can explain you that.
Sunny: Getting my point, Ayosa.
Sunny: So, there is no such concept where a high-end theory is required, a very deep theoretical knowledge is required. No, it's not like that. Okay?
Sunny: It's practical, it's as straightforward. We are going to be using many abstract classes over there, okay, many inbuilt classes.
Sunny: And just, theoretical point, we can also understand, okay? So, no, don't think like this. We can, start with the unslot, okay? I'll give you the clear-cut, comparison also, like, what is the difference between the Ansloth and the hugging Face, okay?
Sunny: So, in interview, are they going to be asked about the parameter? No, they are not going to be asked about the parameter. They will simply ask about the fundamental concept of the fine-tuning, and which framework you have used, and how did you get a data for the fine-tuning. This kind of question you will get.
Sunny: I shared one PDF you can check out with the GitHub repository. There are all the interview questions I have uploaded, okay? So there, you will find out some fine-tuning related questions also.
Sunny: Understood?
Sunny: Sir, which is a most… more preferred framework in the industry. So, in industry, we are using Unslot now, because it is quite fast compared to the Hugging Face, and even I can prove that.
Sunny: Got it.
Sunny: Where was the PDF shared? So, you can check out with the GitHub repository. There, I already uploaded all the resources, along with the interview question and the resume as well. So, I uploaded my resume. You can follow the same format.
Sunny: While creating a resume, okay? So just, open your browser and write sunny Savita GitHub. Once you will do that, you will get it, okay?
Sunny: Yeah, Jay, so this part will come. What is the meaning of this Q projection, K projection, V projection? You will get that once I'll explain about the, like, some point of the QLORA, okay? So let me continue in my way. So what we are doing, so whatever pipeline we have coded using the hugging phase.
Sunny: The same pipeline, basically, we are going to code using the onslaught, so that we will be aligned with our practical stuff, and after that, we can understand the other theoretical concept. Getting my point?
Sunny: Great.
Sunny: So, may I know why did you cover the hugging Face if Unslot is a faster? Because that is a base framework for all the other framework.
Sunny: Understood? Because that is one and only framework which is providing everything, and on top of it only, everything have been created.
Sunny: Okay? So that's why first we have discussed the Hugging Face. I'm not saying that you cannot use Hugging Face in the production, you can.
Sunny: And at many places, basically, you will find it out, and for accessing a multiple data set and multiple model, you should have knowledge of the hugging phase, so that's why we have discussed about the hugging phase. Got it?
Sunny: Okay. So, guys, here you can see, this is the interview questions, so once you will open this particular folder, okay, you will find out the interview questions over here, right?
Sunny: So, how do we check the valid accuracy on the fine-tuned model? We can validate that. While we are doing the training, Najeet, right? So, at that time, you can see the validation laws, you can see the training laws, correct? And even I have shown you the logs as well. I call that particular parameter. So, likewise, we can check out the accuracy of the model.
Sunny: Understood?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: No, fine-tuning-related interview question, you will not get, actually. How do we productionize fine-tune? So, for that, I capped one project using the AWS. I'll discuss onto that, okay? So, you will get some sort of understanding of it. Got it? So, later on, we'll go through with it.
Sunny: So, guys, what I'm doing, I'm pushing the latest changes from my, local, so that you can get all the latest file and folder.
Sunny: So the latest code, actually, it is available, for today's class, the code is available inside this particular folder, okay? So you can follow it.
Sunny: First, let me do one thing. Let me give you two solutions only. First is the Hugging Face solution, and the second is the Anslaught solution, okay? And the rest of the solution, I will provide you later on. So let me cut all the files, from here.
Sunny: And, let me keep it over here.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, over here, you will find out, so I created a folder of the resume. Okay, so once I will push the latest changes, along with that, you will get the resume as well. So, just give me a moment, let me push the resume over here, okay, over the GitHub repository.
Sunny: So, give me a moment, guys. Wait, I am pushing.
Sunny: So, during the AI engineering interview, no, they won't ask you, but if someone is willing, right, if someone know about those concepts, and the requirement is aligned to the ML, the core ML work and all, right?
Sunny: Along with the generative AI work, then they might ask you. Otherwise, they will not. Okay?
Sunny: So, git add dot… And, here I will…
Sunny: add all the changes, then I will commit it, git commit hyphen m, folder updated.
Sunny: Okay? And then I'll write git push.
Sunny: So my… all the changes will be pushed over the GitHub.
Sunny: So, guys, you can take the latest changes from the GitHub now. I already push it now, see?
Sunny: Once you will refresh the GitHub repository, You will get that.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, once you got it, please let me know in the chat so that I can proceed. So, here you will find out the code of the onslaught, the latest code, okay, the current code, today's class code. You can download this inside your local system, you can clone this repository, you can pull the changes, okay? Now, here is a interview question, and here is a resume.
Sunny: So you can take a help of this resume while you are creating a resume, okay? While you are creating a resume for the AI.
Sunny: interviews. And even the experienced person also, I will upload a couple of more resumes going forward, so that experienced folks also can, create a resume. Even an experienced person, if someone is having 10 to 15 to 20 year of experience, so they can also follow the same format.
Sunny: Understood?
Sunny: Okay, so can we start now?
Sunny: Yara, if you have 11 years of experience, even you can follow the same format of the resume. Got it?
Sunny: Yes, for sure, Tarek, I'll upload that. Don't worry. So, guys, today, Yash is not with me. He's on leave today. So, if I'm not able to answer any sort of a question from the chat, then don't we worry about that. I will answer in the doubt session. Understood?
Sunny: So, in backend, yes, she's not there today. So, from next class onward, he will be available. So, if any answer… if any question I'm not able to answer, please ask me in a doubt session. Got it?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, guys, Unsloth also, the fine-tuning using the Ansloth also, we are going to do in collab only, because we required a GPU, and collab is providing us a free GPU, okay? So what I'm doing, first I'm going to create a collab file, okay, new file.
Sunny: And inside that file only, I will be writing a code. So guys, please open the collab file. I think I already provided you the collab, okay? Sorry, I already provided the IPYNB file, you can open that file.
Sunny: You can open it inside the collab, you can open inside the local anywhere, you just need to take that code reference, okay?
Sunny: And in front of you, I'll write a code from scratch. Means, I already coded, but I'll copy and paste over here, and step by step, I will explain you, right?
Sunny: So, first, guys, what I'll do, I will show you the Hugging Face solution, and then we'll compare that particular solution using what? Then we'll compare that particular solution with the onsloth, so you will get a better understanding than how this onsloth is different than this Hugging phase, okay?
Sunny: So, guys, if you remember, I discussed the theoretical theory of the onslaught, yes or no? So, what you can do, you can, simply check out with the
Sunny: Google, okay? So I… you can write over here, Unslot.
Sunny: GitHub.
Sunny: Okay, so once you will write the onslaught GitHub, guys, here you will get the GitHub onslaught, and even, the documentation is also there, right? So here is the documentation of the onslaught.
Sunny: you can open it. Guys, you remember, right, I discussed all the fundamentals of the onslaught, I discussed the theoretical point related to this onslaught. Have you gone through… have you gone through that session?
Sunny: Pooja Kumari, if you're getting invalid notebook, then please download that notebook inside the local, please. How many times should I repeat this part?
Sunny: if I will open that, I will be getting the invalid notebook. Why this thing has happened, you know? Actually, whenever we are uploading the Jupyter notebook with the answers, right? When we execute the cell, we get the answers, right? So that answer, that particular cell is not being supported by this GitHub, actually.
Sunny: Okay? And because of that, you get this invalid notebook error whenever you are going to be open any sort of a notebook inside the GitHub. Okay? Even I might get that, but whenever I'm going to be download this notebook, see, I'm also getting this invalid notebook error, so why I'm getting this invalid notebook error? Just read out this particular issue.
Sunny: So, there was our error rending your network, the state key is missing from the metadata.widges. Okay, widgets. So, because of that, actually, I'm getting this error. Something is wrong while I'm executing a cell, means that output is not rending properly over here. So, what is the best option? Just click on this download, or else clone this file inside your local. Okay, CC, I've downloaded in front of you.
Sunny: Okay? See, I got the down… I got the downloaded file. Now, once I will open this downloaded file.
Sunny: See, once I'll open this downloaded file now.
Sunny: It is opened inside the system.
Sunny: Understood.
Sunny: So, if you are facing this invalid notebook issue, anyone is facing this particular issue, then download this file inside the local, and use it. Understood? Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me, guys.
Sunny: So just, say yes or no, at least.
Sunny: Great.
Sunny: So, did you download the notebook? Did you open it inside your… did you open it inside your local?
Sunny: Okay, by default, automatically, it will be opened up inside the VS Code, or that you can set it.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: not received the caller file. I didn't share the collapse file, I shared this notebook. Just download it and open it, okay? Manish? Great. So, guys, here I created a notebook. So what I'm doing here, I'm just going to be, right, hugging.
Sunny: phase.
Sunny: solution, okay? So first, I'll fine-tune with the help of Hugging Face, and after that, what I will do, I will, fine-tune using the Anslot, okay? And then we'll compare the result of both.
Sunny: Getting my point? So I will simply take one dataset from the Hugging Face Hub only, okay? And on top of that, I'm going to be fine-tune the model, and first, we'll see the result of the Hugging Face in terms of the memory, in terms of the speed and all.
Sunny: Then we'll compare the same thing with the Anslot only. Making sense to all of you? The agenda and the idea is clear?
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Abhi, datewise folder is available. If you will open the GitHub na, you will get the date-wise folder. So, what I'm doing, guys, on some parameter, actually, we are going to be compare. See, if we are doing a comparison between the hugging Face and between the Unsloth, right?
Sunny: So, we'll have to take some same parameter. Then only, basically, this comparison is going to be fair. Otherwise, it will not be fair.
Sunny: So, guys, here you can see, I'm going to be keep, this, parameter. I hope it is visible to all of you. So, what we are doing, guys, just to see over here, let me keep it inside the different shell. So, I'm going to be keep it inside the core cell, okay?
Sunny: So, we are going to take a same model, same dataset, okay, same dataset size, then we are going to take a same prompt format, same max step, same batch size, same number of epoch, okay, and the optimizer setting is also same.
Sunny: LoRa setting is also same, okay? And then, inferencing setting is also same.
Sunny: So everything is same, right? Everything we are doing are same one, every parameter we are keeping same for the hugging Face and for the unslot. And then what we will be doing, we will be comparing the output, right? Output means not an output, the final generated output.
Sunny: then how fast this unslot is, and how slow, or the how fast this Hugging Face is, right? So, we are going to be compare that. So, is it clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no. So, this entire thing is available inside the notebook, which I shared with all of you. So, once you will go ahead with this two notebooks, Hugging Face Solution and Unslot Solution.
Sunny: So, there you will find it out. So, where you will find out this particular parameter? So, inside the unslot solution, I already capped this particular parameter, okay? This, all the names and all, whatever I pasted. Getting my point?
Sunny: So, if the idea is clear, please let me know. Meanwhile, I can connect with my GPU, so I'll change runtime, I'll select the GPU.
Sunny: Then save it and connect it, okay?
Sunny: Yes, we will be directly going to the rack, and the project one will look into the lateral. Got it, Mohan?
Sunny: Abhi, file is here, right? So, these two files, inside the class 24, right? So this two files, Hugging Face solution and the Anslaught solution. Got it, Abhi?
Sunny: Okay. So guys, if this is clear, and if the GPU is connected, can I proceed further? Just give me a quick thumbs up, or quick confirmation, so that I can proceed, okay?
Sunny: Right. So, first of all, guys, what I am doing here… so, first, I'm going to be install some library. So, what kind of fine-tuning I'm going to perform? So, we are going to perform the instruction fine-tuning, okay? So, this is what we are doing for the comparison. Already, we have learned all the fine-tuning and all using the Hugging Face.
Sunny: Okay? Again, I'm doing, using, one more data set, right? So here, you will get some sort of a revision using the hugging phase, okay? Now, why we are doing that? So that we can compare the result with the unslot. Making sense?
Sunny: So, first, I will be installing some packages, right? So, these packages is required for the fine-tuning.
Sunny: Data set, acceleration, transformer, TRL, path, and bits and bytes, right? So these many packages are required, so let me install it. Now, after that, guys, what I will be doing, so after that, guys, I will import all these packages.
Sunny: So here, guys, I'm going to be import all these packages, imp time, torch, loadDataSet, now this is for loading the model, this is for the PEFT model, and for the, basically, quantized model, and this is for my SFT training, right?
Sunny: So, after that, guys, what I will be doing, I will import all these packages. And then I will make sure that my GPU is connected. Okay, so for that, I will be executing this particular code.
Sunny: Just to check whether my GPU is connected or not. So, making sense, still here everything is fine, everything is clear to all of you. You can, check out the code, guys. I already provided you the code, so just download it inside the local and open it.
Sunny: bits and bytes, we use it for the quantization. So, if you wanted to understand the bits and bytes more, I think I already explained in the previous classes, when I was starting with the hugging phase, but still, if you wanted to explore more about the bits and bytes, so just go with the Google, and write bits.
Sunny: and bytes GitHub. So this, GitHub, actually, it is an open source one. So, just a second, let me open it.
Sunny: Soci.
Sunny: Here is a repository of the bits and bytes, okay?
Sunny: You can go and check out the README page of it, you will get the complete detail of it.
Sunny: So we are going to be compressed the size of the weights, okay? If the weights is… it is in a float, then we are going to become compress it in a smaller float, or inside the integer. So that's… it's going to be… take a lesser memory while I'm loading it inside the RAM.
Sunny: Okay? So this library, we are using it for what? For the quantization. Making sense? Did you understand it now?
Sunny: If you want this collab notebook, I can share this as well. So, some people are asking about it. Just a second, I'm giving you this one.
Sunny: So, clearly here, everything is fine, guys.
Sunny: So this is kind of…
Sunny: kind of revision with the hugging phase. I think already we know about the hugging phase, right?
Sunny: Okay, so once you got the notebook, just let me know in the chat.
Sunny: Did you get it? Yes or no?
Sunny: Okay. So, over here, guys, I'm checking whether the GPU is connected or not. So, with this particular code, I can directly check. So, over here, you can see my GPU is connected. And what is my GPU name? So, Tesla T4 is my GPU name, right?
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, what I will be doing, so I will keep some parameter. So, here you can see we have a model name. So, this is the model which I'm using for the fine-tuning, okay?
Sunny: Then, we have a dataset size. So, how many dataset, how many data points we are considering? So, 200 rows I will be considering, okay? So once, one, data, I will load it from the Hugging Face Hub. So, from there, I'm just taking 200 rows.
Sunny: Max sequence length is going to be 1024, okay? Max step is going to be 30, best size is this one. Gradient accumulation is 4, and this is the LoRa learning rate, right? So all this parameter, basically, I'm going to be in this size, and I will be using that.
Sunny: Right? So, here, you can see, guys, this parameter is in a slice. Now, after that, guys, what I will be doing… So, after that, guys, I will be…
Sunny: import my data. So, which data set we are going to be import? So, let me show you the dataset. So, here is the dataset, guys. So, I'll pack a clean dataset. So, once you will check out with the Hugging Face Hub, you will get this particular data. So, let me show you this data, guys. So, just write the name over the Google.
Sunny: Automatically, you will get a link of this data, okay?
Sunny: So, this is the instruction data.
Sunny: So just open this data. This is the instruction data, guys.
Sunny: It is an inbuilt instruction data. Okay, so output is there, input is there, and the instruction is there.
Sunny: Is it visible to all of you? And I think you are able to understand, right? You already understand what is the instruction fine-tuning, what is the instruction data and all.
Sunny: Tell me, is it Kelia? If it is Kelia, please let me know in the chat, okay?
Sunny: So, on top of this particular data, we are going to be fine-tune our model. Got it? Now, after that, guys, what I will be doing, so here I'm going to import my data. Now, tell me, guys, how many rows I'm considering.
Sunny: please write it down in the chat if you are following to me, how many rows we are considering from the dataset. So, we're just considering 200 rows, okay?
Sunny: So, here, basically, I'm taking a raw data set with a 200 rows. Now, guys, this is the Alpaca format. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: This one?
Sunny: We'll be having the instruction input and output, right? So, already I discussed about this particular format, and in the previous classes, I told you the alpaca format related to the instruction fine-tuning. Now, this is what we have discussed in our previous, previous classes, okay? In our 223 previous classes, right?
Sunny: So here, let me, write… let me, take the format of the alpaca, okay? Now, in this particular format only, I will be converting my data. I will be having the instruction input and output means
Sunny: I'm going to be convert, I have 3 columns inside the data, if you will check out the row dataset. So, how many columns you will get.
Sunny: Let me show you those columns.
Sunny: So, if you will check out the raw data set, you will be getting output, input, and instruction, okay? Now, this is my alpaca format. So, where we have an instruction, input, and output. So, this is a three column, three separate column. So, what I will do, guys, I will be combining all this 3 columns, and I'll be keeping as a one single column, okay? After combining all these three columns. I already talked about it, right? I'll be converting into one single text column, okay?
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So, guys, what I'm doing, so I'm going to be convert, this particular data, okay, into the single column. So, here is what? Here is the one, okay? This is the code for that. So, converting it to the text column, so what I'll be doing, so from the alpaca prompt, I'm taking a instruction.
Sunny: input and output, okay? And then what I'm doing, guys, so here, I'm going to be mapped, so this is my raw data set, which I'm going to be mapped to this particular function, okay? And remove column. So, we are going to be remove the earlier column, and I will be just keeping one single, text column, okay, for my fine-tuning. So, let me execute it.
Sunny: And then, guys, you will find out the dataset is created, okay? So, if I will show you the text dataset, now see over here? So here is an example of the text. Now, if I will show you the dataset, so it is there inside this particular variable. So, I have, text feature only, okay?
Sunny: And inside that, inside the dataset, basically, I have 200 rows. Now, you can see the first sample. So, inside the first sample, what we have?
Sunny: So we have a below instruction, this is the instruction, here is the input. Okay, if input is there, the input will be captured. Otherwise, the response will be there. Okay, so this is one single sample. I think we already discussed this entire thing in our previous class. Now, tell me, guys, the dataset formatting is clear.
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: Can you showcase in Excel?
Sunny: Why to showcase in Excel, this one? If you want… if you wanted to, like, check this in Excel, right? So you can check out with the previous dataset, no?
Sunny: Manish, this is your first class, or you miss the pre- in-between classes, hmm?
Sunny: Missed Naha, that is an issue, actually. So what you can do, you can check out the previous classes. In a very detailed manner, we have already discussed this entire thing.
Sunny: Understood. So, if you have missed any sort of a classes, please check out with the previous classes. Got it? So, guys, here's my data, and I think so, you are clear till here. Now, guys, what I will be doing, so first I will import the tokenizer. So, let me import the tokenizer.
Sunny: Okay, so I'm passing the model name, then I'm using this EOS token as a padding token, if any padding is required, and then I'm doing a write padding, right? So, let me execute it. So guys, for the fine-tuning, the steps is going to be same.
Sunny: Okay, already I have discussed this thing multiple times, right? So you should not be confused about it. If you are following to me from the first class, from the very first class of the fine-tuning, then this is a piece of cake now, right? You can easily understand this entire code and all.
Sunny: Now guys, what I'm doing, so I'm going to be write the configuration for the bits and bytes, for the quantization. So, this is the configuration for the, like, quantization, so I will be loading my model in the 4-bit, okay? Now, normal float, the data type will be the normal float, okay? The double quant is true, and…
Sunny: Here, BNB 4-bit compute data type, so com- at the time of the computation, I'm using the float 16, right? So this is the entire configuration for what? For the bits and bytes.
Sunny: If you have some confusion inside this parameter and all, so just wait for one more session. I can explain you over the blackboard, right? This 3 to 4 parameter, and what is the exact idea behind the quantization.
Sunny: So, let me execute this BNB configuration. Now, what I can do, I can load the model. So here, guys, you can see I'm going to load the model, and after that, guys, what I'll be doing, so I'm going to be set one more parameter. So, I'm writing a model configuration use case false, okay?
Sunny: So, see, my model is getting loaded. Now, tell me, guys, this model is getting loaded.
Sunny: in a quantized form, right? So, I will convert into the quantized form using this particular method. Okay, once I'll get this model using this configuration, I'll pass it to this particular method, prepare model for KBIT training. So, here is my model, right? So, once I'll pass the model, I will be getting the quantized model.
Sunny: So, let me execute it, let me get the quantized model. Now, tell me, guys, after that, what I'll be doing.
Sunny: So after that, guys, I will be implementing the LoRa layer, okay, the LoRa adapter. So, here is a code for the LoRa adapter. So, this is the configuration of the LoRa. So, this is the rank of the LoRa, okay, LoRa Alpha, one of the parameters, right?
Sunny: Just to regularize the, the performance of the LoRa. Then on top of… on which module, basically, we are going to be, use the LoRa adapter, so this is the name of all those, modules, okay?
Sunny: Now, task type is what causal LLM means for the next token prediction. Now, once I will execute it, guys, I will be getting the LoRa adapter from my model, okay? Now, I can simply check out the obtainable parameter. So, once I'll, call this, print trainable parameter, I'll be getting the
Sunny: trainable parameter. So, this is my all parameter, this is my LoRa parameter, which I'm going to be trained, okay? And this is just a 0.5% from all the parameter. So, this many parameters, we are training at the time of the training, right?
Sunny: So, tell me, guys, still here, everything is fine, everything is clear?
Sunny: Just let me know in the chat so that I can proceed. If it is getting clear, please let me know.
Sunny: Yes, this is a QLORA.
Sunny: Okay? This is what, guys? This is a Q LoRa.
Sunny: If you're not familiar about all this thing, please check out with my previous session. Already, we have discussed this entire thing.
Sunny: Is LoRa Alpha fixed? No, you can change it. You can change the LoRa alpha value. So guys, if, till here everything is fine, everything is perfect, just give me quick thumbs up so that I can proceed further with the training.
Sunny: Yes, Q Lora means what? Q Lora means quantized LoRa.
Sunny: Got it?
Sunny: Yes, we are going to be trained this much of parameter. THR, I think you are following to me from very first class. Now, why you are asking this question? We are training this much of parameter, hmm?
Sunny: Already, we have discussed in our previous classes, na? Are you not revising the thing? Are you not going through with the entire code and all?
Sunny: Okay. So, guys, here you can see trainable parameter. Now, what I will be doing, so here I am going to perform the instruction tuning, or it is also called the supervised fine-tuning.
Sunny: So, Hugging Face is having one more class for the supervised fine-tuning. I think in the previous code, I didn't introduce that particular class, so let me show you that particular class, okay? That is called the SFT Trainer, okay? So, first, guys, what I will be doing, I'm going to be writing the SFT configuration. So, this is the entire SFT configuration, all the parameter and all.
Sunny: Now, here, guys, we have the,
Sunny: training, accepted trainer, basically, right? And, here, what we are doing, guys, now here, basically, we are going to train our model, right? This one. This is what? This is for the training.
Sunny: So, guys, if you will look into my previous classes, if you will look into my previous session, so there, basically, I haven't used this SFT trainer for what? For the instruction tuning. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: If you will look into my previous end-to-end code, so there, basically, you will find out we were using the different class. So, Hugging Face is providing us one more class. Okay, for what? For the instruction tuning.
Sunny: This is in the latest update, okay, inside the TRL library. So this is for the instruction tuning only. So either I can use the previous one, the same which I've shown you, or else I can use this particular class also.
Sunny: So here, we have the SFT configuration. SFT means what? Supervised Fine Tuning configuration. So we have a max step for how many steps we wanted to execute.
Sunny: then best size, then this is the, like, gradient accumulation step, okay, related to the optimizer, learning rate, okay, where I'm going to be save the entire result, data set related stuff, right? Packing is false, so this is not a…
Sunny: This is… this is what, guys? This is not…
Sunny: This is not a continuous pre-training. So here, I'm keeping packing equal to false. This is an important parameter, actually, okay? You will get this thing in the next, implementation also, inside the unslot, because there, we can perform the unsupervised pre-training and the supervised fine-tuning using the same class, okay?
Sunny: Then we have this FP16 false, BP16 false, right? For the, stable training, I kept it false.
Sunny: Now, here you can see the Optim, okay? This is, again, related to what? Related to the optimizer only.
Sunny: Then, at every 5-step, we are going to be logged by step.
Sunny: And we don't have any saving strategy as of now, right? So this is all the parameter. What you can do, guys, you can hover the mouse on top of this particular class, you will get the complete detail of all the parameters. Okay, so here you can see, we have so many parameters. Hundreds of parameters, basically, you will find out over here. Hundreds of parameters you will find out over here.
Sunny: you can check out with all the parameters, right? Now see the description of each and every parameter over here. Got it?
Sunny: Now, what I'm doing, guys, let me execute it. So, this is my configuration. Now, here is what? Here is my trainer. So, inside the trainer, what I will be providing, I'll be providing the model, I'll be providing my tokenizer, I'll be providing my dataset, and I will be providing my SFT configuration, okay? Now, once I will be executing it, guys, see, the trainer is, defined, right?
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, what I will be doing, so I have to check
Sunny: what is our, like, how much time this training is taking, how much RAM is being consumed, right? So for that, guys, I have written all this thing. So first, guys, what I'm checking, I'm checking the cache, empty cache. Okay, first I'm doing the cache, empty cache. Then I'm checking the peak memory status.
Sunny: Okay, then I'm checking the CUDA synchronization, then here the time is being started, the training will be started, okay, and after that, guys, what will be happening? So, it is giving me the complete training time, okay? How many RAM is allocated, and how many RAM is reserved while we are doing a training.
Sunny: So, we'll be getting all this parameters so that we can do the fair comparison with the unslot. So, while we are going to compare this particular solution with the unslot, so you will get the comparison using this particular parameter only. So, let me execute it, and let me print all this particular parameter, okay?
Sunny: So once I'll call this trader.train, so my training will be started.
Sunny: So, let it train, guys. It will take some time, maybe 2-3 minutes, okay?
Sunny: See, guys, the training has started. Are you getting it or not? Tell me. Is it, easy one? Tell me, yes or no?
Sunny: So this is the kind of revision with the hugging phase.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: You can follow this particular notebook if you want the clear, and if you want the clean explain… clean, basically, code, okay?
Sunny: what is the difference between the, epoch and the step? So, it is very simple, actually. So, it is related to the base size and the data set size. Let me explain you that. So, let's suppose…
Sunny: What is the difference between the step and the epoch, okay?
Sunny: So, let's suppose we have a, data size.
Sunny: So, in the data, We have 1000 rows.
Sunny: 1?
Sunny: 2, 3, okay? Now, we have a batch size.
Sunny: Now, the best size is what? No, the best size is 10.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Now, if I'm completing one complete epoch, means one forward propagation.
Sunny: Or one backward propagation.
Sunny: One forward propagation, and one backward propagation. So this is called what? This is called the one epoch. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Now.
Sunny: Here, let's say my epoch size is what? My epoch size is 1.
Sunny: my epoch size is what? My epoch size is 1. Okay, so this is one epoch. One forward propagation, and one backward propagation. Now, inside this one epoch, how many, example I'm going to be proceed?
Sunny: So I'm going to be proceed all the thousand example, okay, all the thousand rows.
Sunny: Understood, guys? Okay. Now, guys, if we're talking about the, one step, right? So, if we're talking about the one step, let's see if I'm writing over here, one step.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So inside the 1 is tab.
Sunny: How many, basically, example, we are going to be proceed? 10 examples.
Sunny: 10 examples, we are going to be proceed inside the 1 step. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Why? Because the base size is 10.
Sunny: Because what? Because the best size is what? Best size is 10. So, in one step, we are going to be proceed the 10 example. Now, how many, step is going to be executed for this particular data size? Tell me. So I can simply divide.
Sunny: 1000 divided by 10. So, 100 step is going to be executed. 100 step is going to be executed. Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Is it getting clear?
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: Is it getting clear? This example is clear. Okay. Example means this one. 100 data example. This one, example.
Sunny: Okay? You can say example, you can say rows. So, initially, we have 100,000 data example. And what is the best size? In one batch, we are going to be proceed the 10.
Sunny: 10 rows, okay? So, what is a step size? So, step size is basically 10 examples. So, we are processing 10 example and 1 step. Now, for one single epoch, how many steps is going to be executed? So, 1000 data size divided by 10 is equal to 100.
Sunny: Getting my point? Yes or no? So, in one epoch, in one epoch, how many steps would be there?
Sunny: In one epoch?
Sunny: 100.
Sunny: His tabs would be there.
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: Is it getting clear to all of you? So whenever you are going to be stuck, whenever you are, having any doubt related to the step and the epoch, you can look into this particular example. It's very easy, that's it.
Sunny: Okay, so now, let's, do one thing. Let's, look into the trading. Now, see, guys, here, the 30th step is executed inside.
Sunny: the epoch. Okay, so we are just executing the 30th step, okay? Now, over here, guys, you can see the results. What is the result, guys? The training time is 72 seconds.
Sunny: Okay? Peak allocated VRAM is 1.717, and peak reserved VRAM is 2.186 GB, okay? So, this is the second, this is in a second, this is in a GB.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: This part is getting clear. So, we are getting… what we are getting, guys, we are getting some parameter. Now, what is this training loss, actually? The loss we are getting at the time of the training.
Sunny: Okay? If you're not familiar with all those things, then please check out with the neural network session. There you will get some fundamental understanding of the deep learning. It comes under the deep learning fundamental. What is the laws and all everything? You will get it over there. Okay?
Sunny: So, what is the meaning of all this parameter, guys? I can, explain you that also. So, I capped it somewhere. Let me keep it over here. So, what is a parameter? What is the meaning of all this parameter? I'm just keeping the screenshot, just a second.
Sunny: So that you will get a clear-cut understanding about all this parameter, okay?
Sunny: Just a second, guys.
Sunny: Let me take the screenshot, okay?
Sunny: So, I'm keeping it inside a text column, and see, guys, this is the one. So, time second, time taken to complete fine-tuning.
Sunny: time taken for completing fine-tuning. Now, how much time? 94. So, inside this particular example, we have 72, right? Because in the previous one, when I executed before the session, so it has taken the 94 second.
Sunny: Then peak allocated VRAM, it is same one, one actual GPU memory used by the tensor during the training. So, it is 1.717 GB. Peak reserved VRAM, GPU memory reserved by the PyTorch CUDA for the current feature used. So, it is same, 2.186 GB, right? So, this is the meaning of this parameter, you just need to look into the meaning of the parameter, that's it, right? Whatever result is coming over here, just focus over there.
Sunny: Now, let me do the inferencing also. So what I'm doing, guys, I'm doing the inferencing. So this is the code for the inferencing. So over here, you can see…
Sunny: So we are setting the model into the evaluation mode. Now, this is the dataset format, okay? I'll format my data in this particular form… way when I will be getting any sort of a prompt. So, then they will be… it will be converted into the token, then it will be passed to the model for the generation, okay? And after that, guys, here you can see…
Sunny: Torch or inference mode, okay, it is going to be set… it is going to be set into the inference mode, okay, all this particular, like, values we are passing to this particular method, the generate method, right? And then it is calculating all the time and all. Now, how much time it is taking for the inferencing, right? So, here also, you will get some sort of a parameter while we are doing an inferencing after the training.
Sunny: So let me execute it, guys. So, here you will be seeing the inference result, the final prediction, the final testing output, and you will see some parameter along with that, how much time it is taking in the inferencing, how many… how much VRAM and all it is being consumed, right?
Sunny: So, this is the output form here, this is the output from the hugging face. Now, we are going to be compare the… now we are going to be compare the same result with what? We are going to be compare the same result with the onslot, okay?
Sunny: So this was the result, while we were doing the… while we were doing the training.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: And here you can see the result. This is the result, basically, while we are doing an inferencing. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So let me do one thing, let me remove this particular cell, and let me give you the name. So here, see, guys, we are getting the answer as well.
Sunny: From the model end, we are getting an answer, we are getting a tested output. So, just give me a moment, I can give you the exact parameter meaning.
Sunny: Just give me a moment, okay? Wait.
Sunny: So, this is the meaning of the parameter.
Sunny: Okay, all the parameters on which, basically, we are going to be evaluated. So, time second, peak allocation VRAM, peak reserved VRAM, and the generation token per second. Number of new tokens generated per second during the inferencing, right? So, see, this is the result.
Sunny: I hope, guys, this entire thing is clear. Now, tell me, is it getting clear to all of you? Yes or no?
Sunny: Yeah, you can run it for more repo, Kajit, if the loss is not good. As of now, we are just doing it for the learning purpose, not for the accuracy purpose, okay?
Sunny: If my focus will be on the accuracy, then I will click so many parameters over there for getting the better accuracy, and I will not run for the 2 epoch, at least I will execute it for the 100 epoch. Then only I will be getting a good accuracy, okay?
Sunny: What is the time for the dinner?
Sunny: If you wanted to go right now, you can go.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, fine, guys, I hope, it is getting clearer to all of you. Tell me, guys, is it getting clearer?
Sunny: We have configured two epoch, right? So, it is going to be executed for the two epoch.
Sunny: So tell me, is it clear? This hugging Face training is clear, and you got this particular result. Now, can we move to the onslaught? Can we perform the same kind of training using the unslot? There'll be fast, yes or no?
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: Okay. Do we want the break? If you want the break, I can give you the break, and after that, we can start with the onslaught, okay?
Sunny: Yes, we can do the early stopping. If we are executing it for the multiple epochs, then we can do the… we can implement that early stopping also, okay?
Sunny: Okay, good.
Sunny: So, here you can see, guys, we are, able to fine-tune with the hugging phase, right? Let me give you the quick recap. It is a very simple example from the Hugging phase. We have installed the library.
Sunny: Then, we are going to be import all the packages, required packages, then we are setting all the necessary parameter, then we are going to be load the data. Okay, this is the, data from the Hugging Face Hub directly.
Sunny: Then, we are going to be format the data, means we are keeping into the same single column, text column. Now, after that, guys, what we are doing, we are going to be load a tokenizer. Then, we are going to be load a configuration for the quantization. Then, here's a model, the model with the quantized configuration, and then we are going to be converting to the proper quantized model, okay?
Sunny: Then, guys, here you can see the LoRa-related configuration. So, we are going to be applying the LoRa configuration, and we are getting the LoRa-enabled model. So, here you can see the LoRa-enabled model. So, this, adapter, we are going to be trained, okay? Only this much parameter would be there, and rest of the parameter, we are going to be freeze.
Sunny: Okay, then here you can see we are doing an instruction fine-tuning. For that, this is the SFT configuration. Then, this is the SFT trainer, where we are going to be mentioning all the model, all the configuration and all.
Sunny: then here, my trading is going to be start. Now, just to compare it with the other framework, we are taking some parameter. So, water parameter and water parameter, basically, we are going to be compare?
Sunny: So, on this particular parameter, how much time it is taking for the training, how much time it is taking for the inferencing, how much RAM, basically, it is being consumed, right? So, if you will look into the… okay, first of all, tell me, guys, still here everything is fine, everything is clear?
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: Is it getting clear?
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: Kesor Kumar is saying, yes, Kesor, you can even also do it, na?
Sunny: what you can do, you can provide the same question to the model, and generate the output from that, and after that, just check out the same answer after the fine-tuning. So this is small, small,
Sunny: example, even you can also perform. Okay, so I'm keeping it up to you. Please do it. Please test it inside the same notebook. Got it? So, for the practice purpose, you can do it.
Sunny: Now, guys, here, I hope…
Sunny: This entire thing is clear. So, see, guys, if we're talking about the onslaught, so tell me, guys.
Sunny: If we're talking about the unslot in that case.
Sunny: this, library, actually, it is impacting on the accuracy side, on the training side, or it is impacting on the, basically, training side? Means we'll be getting the faster training, we'll be getting a faster inferencing and all. What is the claim of the onslaught? Tell me.
Sunny: So the claim of the onslaught, basically, these are the claim of the onslaught. So they are saying, they are saying, the training is going to be 2x faster with the less VRAM.
Sunny: Okay? Because they are going to be used at different kernel, Triton kernel. Getting my point?
Sunny: So, over here, guys, the accuracy is not going to be dropped… there is no major drop in the accuracy, okay, and even we are not going to be compare on that side, right? If you wanted to compare, you can, but guys, we are checking on the faster side, right? So, which is a more faster, which is giving us an efficient training, with the less memory and with the faster training.
Sunny: Making sense or not, tell me.
Sunny: So, these, on these particular points, actually, we are making a comparison between the onsloth and the, between the Ansloth and what? Between the Unsloth and the, basically, Hugging Face, okay? Native Hugging Face. So, I'm going to create one more new notebook.
Sunny: Okay, so, just a second, I'm going to be, do it.
Sunny: Accuracy part is not important over here, no, because the claim is different of the unslot, okay? So we are not focusing over there. Got it, Ajit?
Sunny: Okay, so I'm setting the GPU. Now, from here, I will have to disconnect. So I'm just going to be disconnecting the GPU, because at one time, I can only connect one… with one file, right?
Sunny: Then, here, let me connect with a GPU.
Sunny: Now, what I'm doing, guys, so I'm writing a file name, Onsloth, fine-tuning.
Sunny: onslaught solution.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, can we start with Onslaught?
Sunny: Why the accuracy is not our goal? Because that is not a claim of the onslaught, no? The claim of the onslaught is a faster and the efficient training. With the less VRAM,
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: And in the less time, with the less VRAM and the less time. Got it?
Sunny: Now, guys, what we can do…
Sunny: See, again, if you want the accuracy, Ajit, Ajit, Samajiiturasa. If you want the accuracy and all, in that case, we require the huge dataset.
Sunny: Okay? We'll have to tweak the prompt on that level, and we require the huge infrastructure also. Getting my point? So, on the same solution, what you can do.
Sunny: On the same solution, basically, you can execute it over the Google Collab Pro, okay, with the huge data, and with the multiple epochs and all, with those hyperparameter setting, right? If you have a concern about the enterprise solution, and about the accuracy and all.
Sunny: Getting my point? Great.
Sunny: So, what I'm doing, guys, so here is the onslaught solution. So, first of all, guys, we'll have to be installed couple of modules with respect to the onslaught, okay?
Sunny: Now, guys, you will see the clear-cut differences, what are the differences? And there is no major differences between the unslot and the Hugging West. All the classes and all, the name and all, everything is going to be same. Somehow, it's going to be same, okay?
Sunny: So, these, many modules is required. So, first, we are going to be installing the Ansla, then this transformer version, and then this TRL version. Because with this version, basically, it was not giving me the error, okay? So, I'm using the specific version over here. So let me install it, guys, and after that, I will be importing the required packages, okay?
Sunny: So, this is the required packages which I'm going to be import. The first is the onslot, the time and torch, I think you know, then fast language model for loading the language model, then load dataset, and the SFT container is going to be same, okay?
Sunny: So, let it install, it will take some time. I can share this notebook so that you can track in a live manner.
Sunny: Just a second.
Sunny: For the industry solution, you can directly use the unslot.
Sunny: Got it?
Sunny: You can prefer the onslaught for that.
Sunny: This unstruct actually takes time.
Sunny: So whenever you're going to be installed, at least it will take 3 to 4 minutes.
Sunny: I can show you the accuracy once it will… once it will be there, okay? So you will not see the major differences between this trading loss.
Sunny: This one, disturbing loss.
Sunny: Okay? And there.
Sunny: which we'll be getting after the onslaught. Got it?
Sunny: The same use case you can pick.
Sunny: I will give you after this, implementation. So, the same use case, basically, on which we have worked, right, in the previous class.
Sunny: with a pharma use case, right? You can do it with a gunsloth also.
Sunny: It is just one more framework for implementing the thing, that's it.
Sunny: What is the training? See, guys, if you're not familiar with the basics and all, then, what I can say, huh?
Sunny: Now, someone is asking about a training loss. Already, we have mentioned inside the prerequisite and all, at least learn about the neural network. So, what is a training loss? So, let's say… see…
Sunny: Whenever we are doing a training, so inside that, we have two.
Sunny: We have two, not two, basically. We have a forward propagation and a backward propagation, okay? Two stage of the model.
Sunny: So, while we are doing a forward propagation, after that, what we are getting, we are getting the predicted value.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Now, this predicted value, we are comparing with the actual value.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, after that, what I'm getting, I'm getting a loss.
Sunny: Right? Now, what is the main aim of this training? The main aim of this training is…
Sunny: to reduce the… loss value.
Sunny: And this is what, guys, tell me, this is the supervised training.
Sunny: Okay, so this is what… this is the supervised training. So in forward propagation, basically, we do the calculations.
Sunny: Okay? We get the predicted value, we are going to be compared with the actual value, this is our supervisor, and we are going to be capture the loss. Our main tool, reduce the loss. Now, how we are doing that? Through adjusting the… we are adjusting the parameter.
Sunny: Now, which parameter?
Sunny: We are going to be adjust the weight and the biases.
Sunny: Now, how we are doing that? Are we doing it manually? No. Inside the backward propagation, we are doing it with the help of Optimizer.
Sunny: Okay? So in the transformer, we use one specific, special type of optimizer that is called the ADAM W optimizer.
Sunny: Adam, W Optimizer.
Sunny: So, using this particular optimizer, we are going to be adjust the weights and the biases value, and our main aim, basically, to reduce the loss.
Sunny: Okay? And this one iteration, this one iteration, forward provocation.
Sunny: Plus, backward propagation, it is called the epoch.
Sunny: And what is our step, guys?
Sunny: step is nothing, means how many batches, how many batches we are going to be proceed. So, in one batch.
Sunny: Let's say, we are going to be proceed.
Sunny: 10 rows.
Sunny: Okay? So how many step size? So, let's say…
Sunny: Here is my one single epoch. Now, the total data is what? Total data is 1000. 1, 1, 0, right? This is the total data, right? So, in one epoch, basically, we are going to be proceeding the entire thousand rows, right? But if we are passing it in the batches, 10-10 rows, then how many steps would be there?
Sunny: 10,000 divided by what? Divided by 10. So, 100 steps would be there, inside the one single epoch. So, this is the entire fundamental, actually. This fundamental, it comes inside the deep learning only.
Sunny: So, if you are familiar with the deep learning, then you can understand this training and all in a better way.
Sunny: Understood, guys? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Yes, this entire scenario is going to be clear to all of you. If it is clear, I think this is well and good, right?
Sunny: Now, guys, let's do one thing. Let's, perform the fine-tuning with the unslot. So, this is all the, like, module which we are going to be import, for the unslot, okay? So, at the top, basically, you will have to keep the unslot, otherwise, it will give you the error, right? So, see, unslot is going to be import. Now, after that, guys, again, we are going to be check with the GPU.
Sunny: So, whether the GPU is there or not.
Sunny: So, the GPU is getting loaded. For the hugging phase, just a second, let me check with the inferencing code. I think it would be there, no? Just a second.
Sunny: Model.generated, na? Yeah, we directly using the… what we are using, we're directly using the adapter over here, the model, basically, which we have trained. Or else, what you can do, you can load that model with the adapter, okay? That will also be fine.
Sunny: As of now, what we are doing, we are using the model adapter only. So, like this also, you can do the quick experiment, okay? This is also fine. You are just doing a prediction using the adapter, and this is, like, quite true as well, okay? Because that is only your trainable parameter. Got it?
Sunny: So, likewise, it is also possible.
Sunny: So I hope, guys, it is getting clear. Now, what I'll do… so here, see, my import statement is there, and the GPU is also there. Now, the parameter is going to be same, it's not going to be changed, guys, this one, right?
Sunny: everything would be same. Okay, now the dataset format is also going to be same. Okay, over the same dataset, we are going to perform that. So, see the same dataset, same number of rows, same number of format, same type of format, okay?
Sunny: And let me execute it. So this is going to be same.
Sunny: So, once it will be executed, what I'll do, guys, I will be loading the model. Now, from here, you will find out some differences, okay? So, let it load, then I will show you the differences.
Sunny: Okay? Now, guys, what I will be doing, I'm going to be load the tokenizer. So, for loading the tokenizer, you can see this is the code.
Sunny: So, fast mod, fast language model. Now, I'm going to be use what? I'm going to be use this particular class. Now, from here, I'm going to be call the same method from created. Now, I'm passing the model name, okay? I'm passing the mass sequence length, data type, and the load in 4-bit, right? So, what I will get, guys, I will get the model and the tokenizer and the single shot.
Sunny: We don't need to load it separately, okay? In the single shot, basically, we will be getting that. Now, after loading the tokenizer, immediately we can, basically set the token, pad token, and the ride shifting, okay? So, let me execute it. So here, guys, what you will be getting, you will be getting the model and the tokenizer using the same method.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, here, guys, you don't need to, write the… you don't need to write any, separate configuration for the quantization.
Sunny: You just need to mention one parameter, automatically it will take care in the backend. Now, see how fast the loading is. How fast the loading is. Now, what I'll do, guys, I will implement the, what I will be implementing, I'll be implementing the load on top of it.
Sunny: Okay? So here, I'm using this fast language class, and I'm calling this getPeft model. Then here, I'm passing my model, loaded quantized model. I'm passing the LoRa configuration, okay? So what I will get, guys, I will get the LoRa model, okay? LoRa adapter. Now, what I can see… what I can do, guys, now here, I can check with the…
Sunny: trainable parameter. So, see, this much as the trainable parameter. Getting my point, guys? Tell me yes or no. Is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny: So what we are doing, guys, so here we are loading the model and the tokenizer, and here we are loading… here we are loading the LoRa adapter, okay? We are appending the LoRa configuration, the LoRa adapter.
Sunny: Now, if you will check out with the Hugging Face code, so you will see some differences over here.
Sunny: So, inside the hugging phase, basically, what we were doing… So, separately, we were loading the tokenizer. See here, separately, we were loading the tokenizer.
Sunny: Where is the tokenizer, guys? Here is a tokenizer. So, separately, we were loading the tokenizer, then we were loading the quantized model, and on top of it, we were implementing the LoRa configuration, okay? Now here, guys, you will see, so using the same method, okay, we are loading the model in the
Sunny: tokenizer. And then, on top of the model, we are implementing the LoRa. Got it, guys? So, this is clear how to use the unslot. Please let me know in the chat if it is clear, then I can proceed further.
Sunny: Yes, it is very easy, very easy to understand. Now, what I'll do, guys, after that, I will be implementing the SFT configuration, okay? So, here is my SFT configuration. Again, this parameter is going to be same.
Sunny: So let me execute it. Now, after that, guys, I will be implementing the SFE Trainer, okay? So again, we just need to pass the model, tokenizer, dataset, and the configuration. So this is going to be same, right? This entire thing is going to be same.
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, what I will be doing, I'm going to be start the training, right? So, training method is also going to be same. I will just call the training, and now I will check the… how many VRAM it is being used, what is the training time, okay?
Sunny: and every sort of a parameter I'll be getting over here, then we are going to be compare it.
Sunny: So, just wait, the training is going to be start. Let's see how much time it is going to be take compared to the native hugging phase, right?
Sunny: This is the SFT trainer from the NO. This is the same SFT trainer, basically. We just need to load the model using the unslot, and inside the same SFT trainer, we need to be pass it for the supervised fine-tuning. Got it?
Sunny: So, where is the difference is? The difference is basically in terms of loading the tokenizer, and in terms of loading the model. There only it is going to be placed the Triton kernel, okay?
Sunny: Now, see, guys, the training have been… the training has started, and let's, count the time now, how much time it is taking.
Sunny: So, with all those parameters, we are going to be captured.
Sunny: where to change the epoch, so you can change the epoch inside this particular configuration, okay?
Sunny: The number of epoch and all, everything you can change over here.
Sunny: So, see guys, the training is done.
Sunny: And can you see the timing? If you will see the timing, let me take the… let me take the timing from here.
Sunny: I'm just going to be copy the timing from here, okay? So, this is the timing, guys. Now, just tell me which is taking up more time. Hugging Face is taking up more time, or Unsloth is taking up more time. See, here we are just going to be compared with the 200 dataset.
Sunny: Right? But, guys, if we are going to be compared with a 20,000 dataset in that case, it's going to be a much, much, much faster.
Sunny: It's going to be very, very faster. Now, over here, guys, you can see peak allocation of the VRAM. Okay, this much is a V… this much… see, it is taking a less VRAM.
Sunny: Okay, and here it is taking up more VRAM. Now, if you will see, the reserve memory, so yes, the reserve memory less over here. Here, basically, it is… peak reserve memory is a more one.
Sunny: So, guys, you can see we are getting a good result inside the… in terms of trending, in terms of the fastness, right? So, we are getting a good result inside the onslaught.
Sunny: So, here I'm just doing a training with the 200 dataset, okay? Now, if you are going to be taking 2,000 dataset, or 2,000… or basically, basically 20,000 dataset, 2 lakh rows, right?
Sunny: In that case, this differences is going to be very, very huge. If you wanted to check, you can check it basically in the break itself. Getting my point? So, is this thing clear or not? Which is a better one? So, unslot is a better one, because it is taking less time for the training.
Sunny: Okay? It is taking a less time for the training. And you can check the training loss also, so how much training loss we are getting. So here you can see the training loss is 1.63 at the 30th step. Okay? So tell me, guys, here the training loss is much, or here the training loss is much.
Sunny: Where you… where you have a less trending loss, where you have less trending loss.
Sunny: So, if you will check out with the unsloss, so there you will find out the less trending loss.
Sunny: Okay? So, overall, guys, Ansaloth is performing better. This Ansloth optimization is performing better compared to the native hugging phase. So, from now onwards, if you are fine-tuning any model, then which framework you are going to be, which framework you are going to be used, tell me. And which framework you are going to be suggesting the production.
Sunny: So, in the production, basically, you can suggest the onslaught directly, because we have a comparison, right? Now, what we can do, like… likewise, guys, only you are going to be creative POCs. So, if your manager is asking something, right, why it is better, why it is not better, so likewise, only you are going to be creative POCs.
Sunny: Making sense? Now, what we can do, we can do the inferencing also. So, we can take the same adapter, on top of it, we can do the inferencing.
Sunny: So what we are doing, guys, so here is the dataset format. Okay, so we are loading our model.
Sunny: For the inferencing, there's a dataset format, now we are passing the, dataset over here, okay, for the inferencing. Then we are calculating the time and all everything. So if I'm going to be executed, guys, over here, you will be see the inference result.
Sunny: So let it execute, and then you will get the inference result.
Sunny: Making sense? So, did you get the comparison between the hugging Face and between the onslaught? Now, see the result over here. So, training time is this much, peak allocation this much, this much, and see the generated token per second is 16.9.
Sunny: Okay? And then this is a generated answer.
Sunny: Right? You can even compare this particular result also, this one.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Generated per token, okay. In inferencing, basically, this, bugging face is doing better.
Sunny: Rather, this onslaught. It is taking 16 seconds.
Sunny: Generated tokens per second, 16. Here you can see the 9 only.
Sunny: In forensic, this is better, and in training, unslot is better, right? Training matters, actually, right? So, I hope, guys, this entire thing is clear. Fast language model, yes, it is from where this fast language model, actually, it is from the unslot. Got it?
Sunny: Why Enslot is better? I already explained that. Aslamji, if you will check out with the previous session, just go and check with my GitHub, where it is, this one.
Sunny: So, I think in the previous classes, in the fine-tuning introduction, I already discussed this entire concept. Why this is better, why this is not better. I think you have missed this particular session.
Sunny: So just look into that session, okay? So why Anceloth is better? I've clearly given you the explanation inside this particular class. I can show you just a second.
Sunny: Fine-tuning introduction, and these are the notes, see?
Sunny: This, this, this, this one, and
Sunny: preference alignment… I think somewhere I have already explained you that. Okay.
Sunny: Let me look into the next notes.
Sunny: Handwriter notes, this, this, this… Yeah, Hugging Face, Hugging Face, VRAM, C.
Sunny: Unslot. Okay, so Unslot, why it is better, why… what… how much memory it is taking. I've shown you all the comparison and all, with a different, different, with one model example, and why Unsolot is so fast, so this is the explanation of that. Okay, so you can look into the class number 19, you will get the complete details over there. Got it?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, fine guys, how's the session so far? Tell me.
Sunny: Is it good or not?
Sunny: Or, are you learning so many things? Are you learning the fine-tuning using the different, different models? Sorry, different, different framework? Now, what I'll do, guys, I will do the same, I will follow the same pipeline, okay, using the unslot, which we have followed using the hugging phase, the non-instruction tuning, instruction tuning, and the final.
Sunny: preference tuning, okay? DPU training and all. I will give you the walkthrough of the code, and then you have to execute it by yourself, so that will be as an assignment for this particular weekend. Got it?
Sunny: Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Great, fine guys, so let's take a break, and then we'll go ahead.
Sunny: Lots of which… what is your confusion? Money is G. If you have any sort of a confusion related to this framework, that, or whatever question, you can clarify in the doubt session, okay? But I would, suggest to you, if you are new to the session, means if you have
Sunny: missed the previous session, then please check out with the previous classes. Got it?
Sunny: Yeah, higher generated… yeah, that is a good observation, Sameer, right? So, overall, I would say Unsloth is a better optimization. The claim of the onslaught is a right, if you will look into the claim of the onslaught, so this is right, actually. And even we have proved that with this particular example. So, what you can do, you can take…
Sunny: 200, sorry, instead of the 200, you can take 2,000 or 20,000 rows. And then, again, you can check out, you can look into the differences. What are the differences inside this training and that training? Making sense to all of you? Right?
Sunny: I given you the wave, I given you the comparison, I given you the solution. Now, on top of it, you can do some
Sunny: more experiment.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: What we'll be covering after the break, so whatever pipeline we have followed, using that pharma data, using the hugging phase, the same we are doing using the unslot. Got it, Vivek? So, you will be having one entire solution with the unslot also. Understood?
Sunny: Five, so let me put the timer, then we'll again start. Thank you.
Sunny: Okay, so guys, let's start with the session. I hope everyone is back.
Sunny: Preeteep is saying, I tested, okay, that's great, Preetep. Pradeep, would you like to share the result? If you have trained it with the 2,000 rows, if the result is available with you, can you share with everyone?
Sunny: A quick, screen sharing, if possible.
Sunny: Guys, believe me, once you will test it with the more data now.
Sunny: once you will test it with the 2,000 rows, or 2 lakh rows, 20,000 rows, you will be surprised. You will really be surprised how this unslot is behaving now, literally, guys. Okay, even I can, show you if you want then.
Sunny: Just a second, I can take 2,000 rows over here, okay?
Sunny: And then I'll come to the final solution.
Sunny: Let me reconnect it.
Sunny: Guys, you're back, right? Everyone is back?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So this time, what I'm doing, guys, I'm taking, 2,000 rows, okay? The data size is going to be 2,000. Now, here also I'll be taking 2,000.
Sunny: You can compare on top of it. Believe me, guys, you will be surprised with the result.
Sunny: So, let it execute.
Sunny: And meanwhile, I can create one more new notebook. So, let me create one new notebook over here.
Sunny: Okay, and the notebook name is going to be what?
Sunny: The notebook name is going to be end-to-end.
Sunny: End to end.
Sunny: LLM.
Sunny: Fine tuning.
Sunny: with Unslot.
Sunny: Okay, if I'm saying end-to-end means I'm including all the three stages.
Sunny: Got it. So, let me check where is my result with the hugging face.
Sunny: Okay, I'm sharing the result of this,
Sunny: link also, okay? Not link of the collab.
Sunny: So that you can follow.
Sunny: Okay, so here, guys, I'm taking 2,000 rows now. Let me run it.
Sunny: Grand Texas… Raw data set, alpaca format, convert, print, tokenizer.
Sunny: model, model configuration, LoRa, trainable parameter, SFT,
Sunny: And then the training is started, okay?
Sunny: So, model is loaded.
Sunny: Now, the trading will start over here.
Sunny: Edge of final result, and sloth.
Sunny: You can show me that in a doubt session, Manish, or else you can check out the more result, right?
Sunny: So, you can check out the more data. Got it?
Sunny: Just check out whether you selected the CPU, GPU, or not.
Sunny: So, training has started, now we'll see how much time it is taking.
Sunny: Until, let me put the, solution, okay?
Sunny: So, guys, I created one entire code. Let me keep it over here.
Sunny: So, this is the entire code, this one.
Sunny: Here, I have included all the three stages.
Sunny: From stage 1 to Stage 3. Unstructured tuning, preference tuning, and as well as, instruction tuning, okay?
Sunny: So, training has started.
Sunny: Let me check how many data points are there. So, yeah, it is 2,000 now, okay, instead of the 200.
Sunny: I'm taking 2,000. Got it?
Sunny: Anyone else is testing?
Sunny: You can let me know in the chat if you're testing then.
Sunny: So, 15 steps are completed, means 3 batches are completed.
Sunny: Okay, we are processing this data in a batches. Got it?
Sunny: You can write minus 1 also, max step is equal to minus 1. In that case, what will happen? It will be executing all the steps.
Sunny: That's fine, Dinesh, okay? You are following in a correct way.
Sunny: So, guys, if you will see the training time, so it is 1-18 second.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Threading time is how much? 118 seconds. Now, let's check out with the unslot. So, I'm taking this particular result, and I'm keeping inside this notebook.
Sunny: So this is the result, basically from where? From the hugging phase. Okay?
Sunny: This one.
Sunny: So, I can keep it over here.
Sunny: Now, what I'll do, guys, I'll execute the unslot. So, let me delete it, let me disconnect the runtime, because at single time, I can only connect with the one runtime, okay?
Sunny: So, let me select the… GPU?
Sunny: If you are using 800, then please check. Did you select the 800 or not?
Sunny: Or you are doing this training over the CPU.
Sunny: So let me install it, and let me import it, okay? So this will take some time, importing and testing.
Sunny: Sorry, importing and installation, let it be.
Sunny: And then, I kept the data sizes 200.
Sunny: So, it is taking one… it has taken 1180.3 seconds.
Sunny: And, VRAM is around 1.756. If you wanted to know the meaning of all this parameters, so I capped it over here.
Sunny: you will get it inside the Unslot notebook, okay? Once you will scroll down till last, you will get it over there.
Sunny: So, yeah, it is installing, let it install, let it complete.
Sunny: And then, guys, meanwhile, you can check out with this particular code, this one.
Sunny: This code is also very simple. I included all the three stages using the onslaught.
Sunny: So today, our onslaught will be completed, and then for this week, you just need to practice with this entire code. I'm not giving anything else apart from this one.
Sunny: And then next week, guys, we'll complete our OpenAI fine-tuning, and then one or more… one or two more solutions, and then some theoretical point, and then we are going to be complete this chapter. Then we are entering into the RAG, RAG agents, and the other projects and all, so…
Sunny: We can complete it, within our timeline, okay?
Sunny: Yeah, okay, sure, Ashwini. Get well soon, okay?
Sunny: Please check out the recording after the, uploaded.
Sunny: Your theoretical explanation is spending.
Sunny: So, it is installing, let it complete…
Sunny: Yes, I'll discuss that Munera. Once I'll come to the chapter now.
Sunny: skills, cloud skills, and all everything we'll discuss. That's not a big deal, very simple, right?
Sunny: Okay, great, Anil. I think you already tested that that's good, Anil.
Sunny: Okay, so this is done, now it is importing. Let me run the other cell also.
Sunny: So, data set is fine, model is fine, model is para… model parameter, receptive configuration, model trainer.
Sunny: And then the training.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so it is importing, it takes time. Unsloth actually takes time when you are importing.
Sunny: Okay, this is done now, let me import the data. So, data is being imported.
Sunny: Okay, now the model is loaded.
Sunny: Here, the model being loaded.
Sunny: Use the same notebook as Sutosh, if you're getting any error. Restart the session and run it again.
Sunny: Guys loading the LoRa model here?
Sunny: then trainable parameter, then SFT configuration.
Sunny: Then I have to train her. And then… Training the model, okay?
Sunny: Fine, guys, so training has started, let's see how much time it will take.
Sunny: I hope so, it should take at least, lesser than this hugging phase.
Sunny: Guys, see the training? Training is running.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so it is completed now, just see the timing. Can you see the timing?
Sunny: Timing is visible to everyone. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Can you see the timing, guys?
Sunny: So, you know, how much time, actually, it's going to be trained. If you will see the timing, so it is just training within 77 seconds, and even it is taking less VRAM. So, the time difference is very huge.
Sunny: So here we can clearly conclude that Unsloth is winning the game, right? Unsloth is winning the game, and this framework is doing better than the native Hugging Face.
Sunny: So this is the result from the…
Sunny: This is a result from the hugging face with the width… 2,000 rows.
Sunny: So, likewise, you can check out with a different, different amount of data set, and you will see the clearly difference between the hugging phase and this unslot. Now it is clear, just give me a quick thumbs up.
Sunny: Now, what this torch.coda synchronization is doing? So, it is just waiting. It's a synchronized process, okay? So, it's waiting until all the pending GPU work is going to be finished.
Sunny: Right? So GPU works, actually. GPU operations are the asynchronized operations.
Sunny: Right? Python code can move forward.
Sunny: So what we are doing, we are keeping it synchronized.
Sunny: Okay? Until all the GPU work, until the threading work is going to be finished. That's the simple meaning of the synchronization. Understood, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: Someone has asked in the chat, so I just returned. I just explained. Got it?
Sunny: Okay, fine, so that's great. Now, let's see. Whatever solution we have built. So, if you will look into our previous class, guys, so this is a code from the previous class. Let me show you the code from the previous class.
Sunny: Okay, this one.
Sunny: So, this notebook, actually, it is having the end-to-end solution. Tell me, guys, this notebook is having an end-to-end solution using the Hugging Face?
Sunny: This one. Have you followed this notebook? I think this is our, like, source of…
Sunny: like, boiler code, right? So, all the… the entire boiler code for the fine-tuning using the hugging Face we capped over here. And this notebook is really good. If you're practicing using this notebook, means you will get a lot from here.
Sunny: Okay? So, guys, now what we are doing, the same solution, let's try to build, let's try to execute using the unslot, okay? So, here what I had done.
Sunny: I am creating a new notebook. So, just read out this comment. Unslot 3-stage pharma fine-tuning pipeline. In stage 1, what we are doing, we are going to be create adapter, okay, the lower adapter. Then we are going to be merge it, then again, we are going to be load, then finally we are going to be create after the preference tuning, okay?
Sunny: So, for that, what is the first step? The first step, basically, to import all the… sorry, to first step to install all the required library. So, I'm going to be install all the required library, so just a second, give me some time, let me disconnect it, and let me connect with the GPU. So, I'm going to be change the runtime.
Sunny: And then I'm going to be connected with a GPU, okay? And let me execute this particular cell.
Sunny: If you're getting any certified error, I'll check that, okay? What is this error, why you are getting it?
Sunny: Even… see, let me check, even I… I'm also getting that error, not. If I'm not getting that, you can follow my solution, okay?
Sunny: Slow, this is fine, no?
Sunny: Okay, so let it install, it will take some time, let it complete.
Sunny: Guys, you are getting everything correct, whatever I'm explaining and all, I hope it is getting clear to all of you, right?
Sunny: Okay, so it's just, like, one step away from you, you just need to revise all the concept. So this week, you can work with the fine-tuning. So next week, guys, what I will do, I will show you one or two more solutions with a different dataset.
Sunny: With the Vision dataset and all, someone was asking. Let me complete that also. I'll… I have all… I have a solution with me. So, the next class, I'll discuss that, okay? So, one or… one or two more classes, max to max for this one.
Sunny: And then we can complete it.
Sunny: I think we are going in a good pace, right? So this pace is good.
Sunny: Don't worry, right? Whatever remaining concepts are there, we'll do that.
Sunny: I hope, guys, this space is good. Everyone is able to, follow to me. If anyone is not able to follow me, you can go ahead with the recording. You can look into the recordings, okay?
Sunny: Quickly, I will show you the solution, unsolved solution, because I'll just take 20 minutes for this one.
Sunny: And then we can wrap it early, okay?
Sunny: Synthetic data one, it is easy, right? Nothing is there, Yogesh. You just need to provide your raw data, your instruction to the model, and according to that, it is going to be generate the
Sunny: data, okay? Instruction data.
Sunny: Gorder?
Sunny: Yes, we'll be learning the RAG evaluation pipeline.
Sunny: No, it does not host the model, it is directly loading it from the Hugging Face only, okay?
Sunny: So, fine guys, it is loaded now, let's do one thing.
Sunny: Let's, import all the required… see, if you're getting this, error and all that, just, ignore it, okay? Just ignore it, put that… I think it is asking about the model Jew library, you can ignore it as of now, right? So just ignore it for the timing, it is not required to us right now.
Sunny: So now what I'll do, guys, I will import the required library, okay? And I'll check whether the GPU is there or not. So, I'll execute this code, so let me keep it over here.
Sunny: Just a second, guys.
Sunny: So here is the installation of the library, then I'm going to be import the necessary packages. OS, RC, GC, okay, time.
Sunny: JSON, Unicode, I think all these packages are already clear. Then these are the packages related to the PyMu PDF and all. Then this is related to the onslaught, okay, and then this, again, related to the onslaught about the DPO trainer. Got it, guys? So these are some, basically packages which I'm going to be import.
Sunny: Now, after that, what I will do, I will keep some, I will, like, keep some,
Sunny: basically, configuration and all, okay? Configuration.
Sunny: and path and all, about the data. So, this configuration would be there, then some helper function will also be there, so let me keep that also. So, I think you are already familiar about the configuration and all, so let me keep it over here.
Sunny: Again, I'm going to be keep it inside the new cell, okay? So, cell by cell, I'm going to be executed, and then again, I can give you the quick revision of it.
Sunny: So, no need to worry. Again, I can give you the quick revision. So, see, first the installation, then the second, basically, import all the required packages. And third, what I'm doing, guys, so here you can see, this is the data path, I'm going to be reading the data. Then here is the configuration.
Sunny: base model and the other parameter and all, I'm keeping it at the single place, okay?
Sunny: Then, guys, after that, I'm going to be create this directory for saving the model. So, adapter, then…
Sunny: merge model, adapter, merge model, adapter, and the merge model, okay? So I'm going to be save all those things. So it's just a simple code. I think you can easily understand just by go… going… just by going through this entire file, because this complete code is inspired from the previous session only.
Sunny: So let me keep the data, guys, so I'm just going to be keep the raw data.
Sunny: So let me keep what? Let me keep the raw data, let me keep the instruction data and the preference data, okay?
Sunny: So all the data I'm keeping over here, here you can see.
Sunny: The path of the data, this one is a path of the data.
Sunny: Okay? Let me check the file name is correct or not. So, I'm keeping the correct file name over here. That's it, guys.
Sunny: So, see, this is the PDF, raw data, this is the instruction data, and this is the preference data. I hope this is clear to all of you. Let me execute it. Now, after the execution, guys, you will see some directory, left-hand side. So, where I'm going to save my result.
Sunny: Is it clear?
Sunny: Tilly here, everything is fine, everything is clear.
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: I hope everything is cleared so far. Now, what we are doing, guys.
Sunny: After that, guys, we are going to be execute our code for the training. So just give me quick thumbs up if, till here everything is fine, everything is clear.
Sunny: We haven't done anything else, we just have imported the library, installed the required packages, and then we have defined the configuration.
Sunny: Korea guys, tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, let's do one thing. Let's, use some helper functions. Okay, so I'm keeping some helper function. So, in between our training, we are going to be use this helper function, okay? So I just, modified this code, the earlier code a little bit.
Sunny: So, you can basically follow this particular code, okay, with respect to the unslot. So, just a second, guys, let me copy that function, all the required function.
Sunny: Why it is not scrolling down… okay.
Sunny: So here, guys, you can see this is all the helper function. I can give you the quick walkthrough of all this function.
Sunny: So let me keep it over here in the new cell. So I'm just going to be keep it in the new cell. So just look into the helper function, whatever function we have. So just focus over the function.
Sunny: The first function is a clear GPU memory. So if anywhere we have to clear the memory, I will use this particular function. If, I have to train and measure, right, the time… okay, so I will use this function just for the training purpose.
Sunny: Okay? So, for training purpose, I'll be using this particular method. I will be passing the trainer, it will be trained, and it will compute the time and all. Then, guys, build instruction prompt, so for that, I'm going to be using this function. So, if I have to build an instruction prompt, I will do it.
Sunny: I will do using this function, okay? Generate answer using this function. Load unslot and load unslot model with a LoRa, so for that, I will be using this function.
Sunny: So, some common function I have created. Now, see, save, adapter, and merging. So, for that, I have created this particular function, for the merging and all, right? So, anything, any task I have to perform in between my pipeline, for that, I have created this particular function.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, earlier also, we were using these particular functions in our Hugging Face pipeline, but that was aligned inside the pipeline. Now, what I have done, I have created this function at the one place.
Sunny: Okay, inside the… inside one cell, okay, I kept all the function at a single place, and now I will be using throughout the pipeline. Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Just give me a quick thumbs up so that I can proceed further.
Sunny: If this is career, please let me know in the chat so that I can proceed further, okay? So I can give you the further code now. Let me take the further code from here.
Sunny: So, see, guys, this is the stage one, where we are going to be extract the data from the PDF, okay? So, extract data from the PDF, clean the data from the PDF, build the dataset, and after that, guys, what I will be doing, after that, guys, I will be building the final dataset.
Sunny: So let me keep this particular code, guys. Let me keep this particular code in the next cell, so that we can execute it, okay? So I'm going to be keep it over here, just focus now. Let me, again, explain you, let me again give you the quick walkthrough what we are doing.
Sunny: So, in the stage one, we are going to be fine-tuned with the raw data. That's going to be our PDF, okay? So, for that, we have a function, extractPDF, we are going to be extract the PDF. We are going to be clean the data, this is the text cleaning, we already know about it, okay?
Sunny: Then we are going to be build the PDF dataset, right? We are going to be build the text paragraph and all. I think we already know about it. In the previous classes, we are doing it. From past 3 classes, this is the thing which we are doing. Then after that, guys, we'll be calling this final function, build PDF dataset, and we'll be getting our data for the stage 1 fine-tuning.
Sunny: So let me execute it, and let me check whether I'm getting the data or not. So yeah, guys, we are getting our data, and here you can see the sample paragraph.
Sunny: Getting my point? Yes or no?
Sunny: Yes? Is it Kilia?
Sunny: how to clean the dataset and all, how to run it in the single, basically go. I hope this entire code is clear.
Sunny: Now, after that, what I will be doing, I will be training, actually. So, let me show you the training code. So, see, this is the training code, basically. So, let me keep the training code for the first stage, okay? So, till here, basically.
Sunny: the code of the first stage, okay?
Sunny: So, what I'm doing, guys, I'm just going to be keep it in the next cell, cut it from there, and keeping it over here. Now, just focus, guys, don't worry, I will give you the quick revision of this entire thing, so that you can follow. Now, what I will be doing, I'm going to be load the model, load unsolot model with the LoRa, so this function I already created.
Sunny: Over here, I'm passing the model name, and my model, and the tokenizer will be loaded.
Sunny: Okay? Now guys, here, what I'll be getting, I'm preparing the model for the training, okay? Now, what I'm doing, I'm defining a SFT configuration, so this SFT configuration is there, SFT trainer is there, okay? And then.
Sunny: I'm going to be train. Train the model. So, train and measure. So, here I'm going to be train the model.
Sunny: Then I'm going to be save the adapter, and then merge the adapter with the base model. So here is my stage 1 model, here is my stage 1 adapter, okay? And then we are going to be merged inside this particular directory. I will be getting the merge model so that I can use it in the next stage.
Sunny: After that, guys, I'm going to be delete all this parameter, okay? From the memory. So let me execute it, guys. So the training will be started, and after that, guys, what will happen? The model adapter is going to be created, and it is going to be merged with the final base… it is going to be merged with the base model.
Sunny: So tell me, guys, is this entire steps are clear? The steps are same?
Sunny: Code is a little bit different.
Sunny: We are following the same thing which we have done using the hugging Face only. If it is clear, just let me know in the chat.
Sunny: I can give you the quick revision of this entire thing, don't worry.
Sunny: Even you can follow it, okay?
Sunny: So, see, the training will be going on now.
Sunny: It's loading the tokenizer and all everything.
Sunny: Yes, Chandra, I will give you the quick revision of it. You will get it, okay? Don't worry.
Sunny: Stage 1, 2, 3 learning rate is different. At which place you are saying, Sumit? So, Smith?
Sunny: Okay, so the training has started, let it complete.
Sunny: And this entire code, using the unslot only, right?
Sunny: what you told before the break, it is the same you are teaching? Yeah, it… see, before the break, what I have done, I have taken data set, and I have executed using the onslot, the instruction tuning, right? Now, this onslot, basically, we are using over the pipeline, which we have learned.
Sunny: non-instruction tuning, instruction tuning, and the preference tuning, okay? So if you're not aware about it, Sumit, please go and check out the previous session.
Sunny: Yeah, this learning rate, huh? You can set the same also, you can set the different also, okay?
Sunny: This learning rate. The learning rate with respect to the different, different training.
Sunny: Got it?
Sunny: So, see, guys, the trending is going on over here. Let it complete.
Sunny: For the domain learning, actually, we have kept the little higher learning rate. For the instruction one, medium one. And for the, preference one, the little lower one, okay?
Sunny: You can adjust that, you see, you can use the same also.
Sunny: Right? Don't have an issue. But yeah, if you are doing that non-instruction tuning where deeply you have to teach to the model, then you can increase the learning rate little bit, okay? That is completely fine.
Sunny: Got it.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so my training is done, I think so, and the model is going to be merged. After that, I'll be getting the merge model, where I'll be getting the merge model, I'll be getting the merge model inside this particular directory.
Sunny: So you can check out with this particular directory. Non-instruction adapter will be over here. See, the adapter is over here. After the training, the LoRa adapter. And the final merge model, you will get it over here. Got it, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: Tell me, is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, let it complete. The training might take some time, so it is running.
Sunny: Okay, so guys, merging is going on with the model. I'll give you the quick walkthrough of this entire code, don't worry, you will understand everything, okay? So, let me complete this pipeline, then I'll again explain you.
Sunny: Okay, so merging is done. After the merging, guys, where you will get the model?
Sunny: After the merging, basically, we'll get the model over here. You can look into the directory, this one. Stage 1, Merged Model.
Sunny: Guys, you're familiar with this stage one, stage 2, and every one… everything, no, right?
Sunny: Can you answer how we can measure the loss and the success?
Sunny: We are measuring now, see, we are measuring the trading loss. That's the first thing, by default, you will get. If you are mentioning the validation data, you will get that over there. Now, if you want to measure the loss, okay.
Sunny: accuracy or laws, basically, on top of the unseen data. So for that, also, you can write a separate function. We have 3 types of, basically, laws, right?
Sunny: Or, testing. First, basically, during the training, that loss you will get. Second is a validation loss, already I've shown in the previous hugging phase, right, Bhavia? The third, basically, over the unseen data, the prompt which we are giving. Related to that, also, you can check the accuracy, you can do the evaluation, based on some different, different
Sunny: parameter, blue score, perplexity score, rough score, okay? So that we can discuss. Later on the evaluation chapter, I can put some light on top of those particular parameters. Got it, Bhavia?
Sunny: Is it clear?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Stages means fine-tuning stage. There are three stages. First, non-instruction tuning, second, instruction tuning, and the third is upperflinence tuning.
Sunny: I think you're not revising the sessions, right, guys? Pooja, you are not… you haven't revised this session, correct?
Sunny: The earlier session, hmm?
Sunny: Okay, guys, so here you can see…
Sunny: Now, why we are getting this constant… see, this is the step, actually. Okay, so if you will look into this, this is what… this is the step, guys. See, why it is not reducing? Why the loss is not coming down, okay? Because maybe the parameter we haven't keep according to the data, the data set is very less over here.
Sunny: Okay? We'll have to, basically keep the parameter according to that, or we'll have to take up more data. Getting my point?
Sunny: So, likewise, we can check out. So here, it took this much of time, and this much of memory, and after the training and all, the merge model, you will get it over here. Now, inside the next stage, what we will do, guys, tell me, are we going to load this merge model, and on top of it, again, we are doing an instruction fine-tuning, yes or no?
Sunny: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Right? Okay. So, what we are doing, guys, I'm just going to be take… so let me take the data from the second stage.
Sunny: So, here, basically…
Sunny: data set, okay? So, I'm taking a dataset, guys. Now, which dataset I'll be taking? Which dataset I'll be considering?
Sunny: So here, I'll be taking an instruction data, okay, from this particular JSON file.
Sunny: this JSON file, pharma instruction underscore data dot JSNL, okay? So let me load the data, and after loading the data, guys, what I'll be doing, I'm going to be keep it inside the format, okay, inside this format, and then I'm converting into the Hugging Face format, okay? So, this is the complete function which I will run, so I will be getting my final data for the training.
Sunny: Now, I hope this formatting is done, then, formatting is clear, then after that, guys, what I'll be doing… so here is the Stage 2 tokenizer. So, we are going to be… load the merge model, and on top of it, again, we are going to be perform the LoRa. Again, we are going to be append the LoRa adapter.
Sunny: And then we are going to be perform the training of that. So let me take that, model also. So over here, guys, you can see this is from the stage 2. So let me keep it over here, inside this particular cell. So let me, give you the quick walkthrough of this entire code.
Sunny: Okay? So what is happening, guys? Tell me. So here we are loading a model. So, base model.
Sunny: base model, and the tokenizer. Base model along with the LoRa adapter, so this function is doing everything for us. Then, we are going to be convert the model means we are getting a final model, okay? Tokenization and all, everything is there. SFT configuration is there, then SFTainer is there, then here you can see
Sunny: Train and measure means, we are training the model and measuring the time and all everything, and then we are going to be save the adapter, and finally merging with our model, okay? We are doing a merging. That adapter, we are going to be merged with our base model, the base model which we are getting from the first stage, okay?
Sunny: Now, let me execute it, guys. So here, you will see, so it is happening using the unslot. So, let it complete, and
Sunny: Then, guys…
Sunny: you will get the final model after the instruction tuning. So this is… we are… this is, this we are doing with the instruction data set, right?
Sunny: If you will go through with this particular solution, the previous solution.
Sunny: We were doing the same thing over here.
Sunny: And… but this… inside this particular file, we were doing it using the hugging Face, okay? Inside this particular file.
Sunny: So let it complete, and don't worry, guys, I'll give you the quick revision of this entire thing. Everything is going to be clear.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so the training is done, we have trained the LoRa adapter successfully, and then we are going to be merged it with VAR, we are going to be merged with our model. So let it complete, and then final model, where you will get the final model?
Sunny: So, inside this particular folder, you will get the model. See, inside this folder, you will get the adapter, and inside this folder, you will get the final model, okay? Means the model after the instruction tuning. So, let it complete. So, see, the merging processing is happening.
Sunny: And the final model will be over here.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, what is the third stage? What is the third stage?
Sunny: Tell me, tell me, tell me, what is the third stage?
Sunny: If we're talking about the third stage, the third stage is the preference tuning.
Sunny: Okay, so let me, load the data, the preference data. See, this is a code for loading the preference data.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So I can keep it over here.
Sunny: The code for the preference data.
Sunny: Then, guys, what I can do, then, basically, I can…
Sunny: take the training code as well. See, this is the training code.
Sunny: And the final one. So, see, this is the training code.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, what will happen? See?
Sunny: Here, basically, we can check out whether all the models are there or not. So this is our final notebook. This is our final notebook with what? With the onslaught, okay? So, don't worry, guys, I'll give you the quick revision.
Sunny: And, after that, everything is going to be clear. So, see that training is done for the instruction tuning, and let me see the merging also. So, merging is also done, means we got the model after the instruction tuning, okay? So, here, inside this particular folder, inside this particular folder, you will get the saved tensor file.
Sunny: Safe tensor file means what? Safe tensorFile means?
Sunny: you will be getting that binary file, okay? Model.saveTensors file. Now, after that, what I'm doing, guys, so here, I'm performing the preference tuning, preference training.
Sunny: So, I'm loading the preference dataset, so the dataset is over here. Then I'm going to be format this data set, okay? So, inside this dataset, we have a three column, prompt, chosen, and rejected. Now, after that, guys, what we are doing, so here, we are going to be load the model from the stage 2. This is going to be my base model, and then…
Sunny: On top of it, I'm going to be append the LoRa layer, okay?
Sunny: Then here, basically, my final model will be ready, my tokenization and all the things will be completed over here, all the padding and all. Then this is my configuration for the DPO, DPO configuration. Then here is my DPO trainer, okay? Then finally, basically, we are going to be train the model, right? And then we are going to be save the adapter, and finally, we are merging the model.
Sunny: So this is the training, the last and the final training, okay? And then we can…
Sunny: Check out that all the models and all everything is there or not, just by running this particular cell.
Sunny: So, I hope, guys, this entire, training is clear, this, three stages are clear of the training, which we have done using the hugging Face earlier. Now, I have shown you the quick glimpse using the unslot as well, okay?
Sunny: Gianni is asking, what is a Stase 3?
Sunny: Guys, please, tell to the Guyani what is a stage 1, 2, 3.
Sunny: Why you are not attending our sessions, the previous session, or…
Sunny: Anyone knows about the three stages of the LLM training?
Sunny: Anyone is familiar with the three stages of the RLM training? How many of you know? Can you write yes in the chat?
Sunny: Okay, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, right?
Sunny: Guys, see, everyone knows about it. I think,
Sunny: So, this is what I'm saying, guys. Please, please focus in the previous session also.
Sunny: Already, I have discussed it multiple times. I'm repeating, repeating, repeating, repeating. In every session, I'm repeating the same thing.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So please, guys, please focus inside the, please focus, in this class, and if you're not, if you haven't attended the previous session, then please check the previous class first. Got it?
Sunny: See, people are saying, stage one is a non-instruction tuning, then instruction tuning, and then the third one is a preference tuning. This is what we are doing now.
Sunny: Great.
Sunny: So, let it complete, guys. I will give you the quick revision of this entire codebase, and let me give you the quick revision over the Blackboard as well, okay?
Sunny: So, let this training complete it. See, the training is running for the DPO. Okay, this one.
Sunny: And where we will get the final model, we will get it over here. So you can do the inferencing and all as well, everything you can do. Here I haven't added the inferencing code, but you can do that.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So until, let's, revise the thing again, and let's, go ahead… go through with this entire code one more time.
Sunny: And couple of more things which I would like to highlight, so let me give you that, theoretical point as well.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so see, the training is done, the final merging is happening. So we'll be getting the final merged model that we can utilize for what? That we can utilize it for the final, then what we can do, we can utilize it for the final, prediction, okay, final inferencing. Got it?
Sunny: Can we use Hugging Face for the training and Anselot for the inferencing? No, you cannot do it. How you can do it, huh? And what benefit you will be having after doing this?
Sunny: Okay, fine guys, so we got our all the models. After training, we got our all the models.
Sunny: Right? Great.
Sunny: So, now let's do one thing, let's, recap, now let's recap the flow, and after that, again, let's revise the entire thing, okay? So what I'm doing, guys, over here.
Sunny: I am revising the entire flow, okay?
Sunny: As long as you forget your identity example, what is in check.
Sunny: This is what I'm doing, na, Sayan.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: everything, basically, I'm going in a step, by step, right? The code and all, everything is very dense, right?
Sunny: It also takes, effort, it also takes some time to explain.
Sunny: And again, I'm repeating, if everything is being done by the mentor only, then what a student will do?
Sunny: the session is updated, the resources are there. If people are not looking into that and not revising it, then what is my fault over there? If I'm revising everything from the DFOS itself, let's say I started the fine-tuning, again, I'm repeating all the things, then how I will be completing the further one?
Sunny: So, please understand that one. So, let's do one thing, guys, step by step, again, so we can, go ahead. So, what is our, basically aim? So, see.
Sunny: I discuss with respect to the LLM training, okay?
Sunny: So, we're talking about the… LLM.
Sunny: training.
Sunny: So, we have 3 stages of it.
Sunny: The first stage is called the… None.
Sunny: instruction.
Sunny: Tuning.
Sunny: Got it, guys?
Sunny: Here, basically, we are going to be use the raw data.
Sunny: Okay? Now, this is what… this is the pre-training of the model.
Sunny: Now, we are not training our mod… we are not training our model from scratch, actually. So, what we are doing, we are doing a custom pre-training.
Sunny: Okay? We are doing a custom pre-training. We are already taking one base model.
Sunny: And we are doing on top of it.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Now, here, guys, we are going to be creating data in such a way that inside the data, we'll be having one column that is a text.
Sunny: Alright?
Sunny: And using this particular column, we are going to be train it. Now, earlier, guys, we have performed this pre-training using the hugging Face.
Sunny: Agingface framework. Now, what we are doing, now we are going to be perform the same thing using the unslot.
Sunny: Okay? Now, we're talking about the hugging face, guys.
Sunny: So, inside the hugging phase, we were using the trainer class.
Sunny: Okay? Now, we're talking about the hugging onslaught, guys, so here we are using the SFT class.
Sunny: this SFT class. If you will look into the code, you will get that particular difference.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys?
Sunny: So, we were using the trainer class, now here we are using the SFT class for this particular LNM training, right? Now, guys, over here, see, the second stage of the
Sunny: LLM training is called the… instruction.
Sunny: Fine tutoring.
Sunny: There, actually, we are going to be following the alpaca, Format of the data.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Now, inside this, we have a three-column. One is called the instruction.
Sunny: Second is called the input.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Input.
Sunny: And third is called the output.
Sunny: Now, after combining all these three columns, again, we are going to create one column that's going to be a text.
Sunny: Okay? And then, inside this, we will be having the detail of all the three columns.
Sunny: Okay? Now, we have performed the tuning of it using the hugging phase, as well as the onslot.
Sunny: Now, we're talking about the hugging Face, guys, so here, we are going to be using the trainer class again.
Sunny: Now, inside the Ansloth, we are using the SFT class, if you will check out that.
Sunny: You will get it.
Sunny: Okay? Now…
Sunny: what we are doing, the third stage is called what? The third stage of the training is called.
Sunny: The preference alignment, or preference tuning.
Sunny: Okay? Now here, guys… in the data, We have prompt.
Sunny: chosen.
Sunny: And reject it.
Sunny: Okay? So after formatting our data again, we are going to be create one column, final column, that's going to be a text column.
Sunny: And inside this particular column, we'll be having the information from all these three columns.
Sunny: If you will look in the format, you will get it. So here, also, we have used the Hugging Face, and today, we have used the Unslaw, the different framework.
Sunny: So, inside the hugging phase, we have used the one framework. Let me show you which frame… which class we have used. So, this is the class, guys, for the preference tutoring. I think DPO Trainer we are using.
Sunny: So, let me show you. See, training argument, and the trainer class we have used. See, this is a trainer class. We have used it for the SFT, okay? Sorry, we have used it for the instruction tuning. Now, in the unslot, we are going to be using the latest class from the Hugging Face itself, that is a SFT, okay? So, it is doing the same job, right?
Sunny: So, let me show you the DPO one now. So, if you will look into the DPO,
Sunny: Yeah, here is a DPO, guys. So, this is the complete detail of the DPO, load data set.
Sunny: preference data set.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Base model, automatic model we are loading.
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, you can see the DPO Trainer. We are going to be using DPO Trainer over here. Okay, this is our class, DPO Trainer. So, let me write over here. In the hugging phase, we are going to be use what?
Sunny: DPO.
Sunny: trainer.
Sunny: Okay? Now, if you will look into the onslot, so I think in this onslot also, we are going to be using the same class, so let me open the unslot solution also.
Sunny: So, here is the unslot one. So, see guys, the DPO trainer we are using over here. Now, if you will look over here,
Sunny: load and unload, right? So, just look into the import statement, so just go above and check out the import statement.
Sunny: So, data set load, SFT trainer, see, this is for the SF3D, okay, for the non-instruction and instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny: And then, from the unslot, what we are going to be import, we are going to be import this.
Sunny: patch DPO Trainer, okay? So, DPO patch will be applied, means we have
Sunny: we are… if we are going to import the patch DPU trainer. So, DPO patch will be applied, and then directly we can train using the DPO trainer itself, okay?
Sunny: So, for that, what we are doing, guys, we are going to be import this DPO patch from the onslaught, okay, and then we are using the same DPO trainer. Now, you can look into this, basically this helper function also. So, inside the helper function, see, this is a training one.
Sunny: So trainer.train, okay? So this is find now build instruction, generate answer. So model loading also will be here, see? Using this fast language model dot from pre-train, we are going to be load the model.
Sunny: So whether it's the base model or the merge model, we are going to be load with this, and see, we are going to be apply the LoRa on top of it, okay? The save models, we are doing… we are saving the model over here, then we are going to be merge it.
Sunny: Okay, so now here you can see we are going to be merged. So merging code is here, and the saving code is over here, right? So both is over here. Again, I will give you the quick recap of it. Got it, guys? So, if we're talking about the unslot, so inside the unslot, basically, what we are using, so for the DPO, basically, we are going to be use this particular
Sunny: code base, okay, this particular import statement. So let me keep it over here, so that you will get a good understanding, right? What is being used, at which place.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: I hope this entire thing is clear. So today, we have seen the same pipeline using what? Using the unslot, right? Unsloth is nothing, it's just a wrapper, one wrapper on top of the hugging phase. So, entire thing have been written in the inside the hugging phase.
Sunny: Okay? Hugging face.
Sunny: On top of it, basically, they have created one wrapper, okay? They have created one wrapper. That's it, that is nothing, that is an unslot. Now, what all changes is there inside the unsloth? So, you can check out with my class number 19.
Sunny: class number 90, you will get it over there. I already discussed the entire theoretical point with respect to the unslot. Got it? Now, this unslot framework is nothing, it's just one sort of a wrapper on top of the hugging face, okay? Which is claiming a faster training.
Sunny: faster training with a less VRAM. So this, I already proved.
Sunny: In my previous example, which I've given you before the break, actually. Getting my point? So, till here, everything is fine, everything is clear, guys, tell me.
Sunny: what is all the three stages we have, how we are preparing our data, and what all classes we are using for the training purpose. If this entire thing is getting clear to all of you, just let me know in the chat so that I can give you the quick revision of the entire code, okay?
Sunny: We are importing the patch DPO trainer, and then we are call… we are doing the final training using the DPO trainer itself.
Sunny: Got it?
Sunny: clear, guys, just give me a quick thumbs up so that we can, start, okay? I can give you the quick revision, basically.
Sunny: See, it is very simple. If we're talking about this one now, let me write over here, see, this one.
Sunny: If we're talking about this import statement, so what this import statement is saying, this one, patch DPO trainer. So, this import statement is saying, patch or optimize the DPO trainer behavior before we import it, right? Before we import the DPO trainer. After that, only we are going to be imported, na?
Sunny: Right? So, we are going to be optimize the behavior of the DPO trainer according to the unslot. This is what we are doing.
Sunny: Getting my point? Yes or no? Is it getting clear? I think I capped some detail regarding that, let me keep it, okay, just a second, guys. I have that over here, just a second. Let me keep it so that you will get a clear-cut understanding. This one.
Sunny: So, unslot patch applied, TRL DPO trainer import, DPO training runs with the unslot optimization. Got it? So, to implement the unslot DPO optimization, we have this particular import statement.
Sunny: Is it getting clear?
Sunny: Okay, great.
Sunny: Because there, we were not using the Anslaught, na, Ganga Darji.
Sunny: That's why we haven't imported that page, patch, okay?
Sunny: Fine, so guys, let's take a quick water break, 2-minute break. After that, I'll give you the quick revision of this entire code.
Sunny: Okay, so 2 minute of break, and then quick revision.
Sunny: Until, I can give you this fresh notebook. So, let me download it.
Sunny: So, guys, how was the session? Are you learning something new? Yes or no?
Sunny: You can, revise this entire thing for the better.
Sunny: Understanding, okay?
Sunny: You just need to revise this entire thing.
Sunny: And your understanding will be very concrete.
Sunny: And take the help of the AI and all, right, while… when you are going to revise this entire, solution.
Sunny: So, just, look into this file, sorry, folder, you will get the updated code.
Sunny: Just refresh it.
Sunny: And you will get the updated code over here.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, providing you the link of the GitHub, just check it out.
Sunny: This is all the project only, Anil, whatever we are doing, right? Just a project, actually, right? So, guys, quick water break, 2-minute water break, then we'll start with a quick revision. 5 minutes I'll take, after that, I'll start with a doubt session, okay?
Sunny: Okay, guys, so are you back? Can we start with the revision? So I can give you the quick revision?
Sunny: Of this entire one, then we can start.
Sunny: Sorry, then we'll end the session.
Sunny: Yeah, Sudashan, we'll do that, okay? We'll do that particular project. Don't worry about it. So, first of all, guys, what we have to do, we have to load… sorry, we have to install the Ansroth library.
Sunny: And, along with that, this transformer version, this TRL version, PyMe PDF in the dataset for the dataset perspective. Got it? Then, guys, what we have, we have some import statement. I think you are already familiar with this import statement.
Sunny: Okay, I'm not repeating it.
Sunny: Then the import statement from the onslaught, so this is the important one. Then this fast language.
Sunny: Fast language model is an important one, okay? Then…
Sunny: After that, guys, this DPO patch is important one. So, this is the import statement from the onslaught. Got it? Now, what we'll do, guys, so here we have a dataset path. So, this dataset we are using for the different, different stages of the training. Then, here, guys, my, all the configuration. So, this is the base model which I'm using.
Sunny: Max length, 512, right? Minimum character per graph, so this is all the things you already know. LoRa configuration, okay, gradient configuration.
Sunny: in stage 2, how many… how many MEX steps we are executing, what is the learning rate, basically, okay? Then this is related to the DPU, training, right?
Sunny: Okay, then, here, basically, output root means final, output, sorry, will be getting the output, basically, okay, after the merging.
Sunny: Then, stage-wise also, we are going to be save the model. Okay, and then we are going to be create a directory. So, here we'll be getting the output, the final output directory, and inside that, inside that, stage-wise, we are going to be save the, result. Got it?
Sunny: So this code is very simple. Once you will go through with it, you will be able to understand. Then, guys, what we are doing, so we have some helper function. Instead of writing this functionality again and again inside the entire pipeline, inside the entire code, I created this function, I created this functionality as a function, so that directly we can call it at the same place, okay? At the required place. Because again and again, we are writing inside our code base, and there are
Sunny: redundancy is going to be increased. If you will look into the previous code, right? So, how many times we have repeated the same thing?
Sunny: which could be concluded in one single function, and again, we can call that as per the requirement. So this is what we are doing over here. Got it? So what we have done, guys, so this is the function for the clearing the GPU memory and all. Training, okay, for, basically.
Sunny: for the training and the measuring the time, okay? I think you already know about it. Then, guide, build instruction prompt, so we can give the instruction, okay?
Sunny: And the input text and the prompt will be created. Instruction input and response, right? Then generate answer, guys, if I want to generate anything, in the inferencing, then we can utilize this function. If you wanted to load the model, then see, we can utilize this function.
Sunny: And then, for saving the adapter, for saving and merging, we can utilize this function. So, this is the code for the saving, and after that, guys, you can see we are going to be load the model.
Sunny: Okay, and then here we are going to be merge the model with our previous model, okay? With our base model. So, I hope, guys, this entire reusable functionality is clear. So, instead of writing again and again the same code inside the code base.
Sunny: We have created a function so that it could be the Reusable code, okay?
Sunny: Then what we are doing, guys, in the stage one, we have to deal with a PDF.
Sunny: So we are going to be extract the PDF pages, okay? Already, I explained this code multiple times. Then we are going to be clean the data using the regular expression. Already I discussed that. And then finally, we are going to be build our data set. So inside that, we have a text column, and this is some metadata, okay?
Sunny: And after that, guys, here you can see we are going to be converted into the Hugging Face format, okay? So, multiple times, I have revised this, repeated this code in our previous session, okay? You can go and check with those sessions for the better clarity.
Sunny: Then after that, guys, here my dataset will be prepared. Then, we are going to be load the model. So we are going to be load a base model and the tokenizer, okay? Then fast language model for training, we are going to be call it, and we are passing our model, so my model will be ready for the training.
Sunny: After that, guys, we are going to be defining the SFT configuration, okay? So this is the SFT configuration for what? This is the SFT configuration for the unsupervised training. Now, if you will look over here, so this parameter is playing an important role, packing is equal to true.
Sunny: Packing is equal to true means what? So it will try to predict the next token inside this unsupervised pre-training, right? So, here is the entire SFT configuration. The entire configuration is same, like the previous one, okay? So, I'm going to use this latest class instead of the training argument. I can utilize that class also, but in the updated version of the
Sunny: Hugging phase training, or in the updated version, basically, we can use this SFT trainer, right? For the instruction tuning and for the non-instruction tuning, both. In the hugging Face, basically, I have shown you the same thing with the trainer class, okay?
Sunny: So, guys, here is my configuration, here is my trainer, and then I'm passing the trainer to this particular function. I will be measuring the time and all everything, okay? And my training will be done. Then after the training, I'll be saving the model.
Sunny: And I will be saving the… sorry, I will be saving the LoRa adapter, and I will be saving the final model. Okay, merge model.
Sunny: Okay, where it is going to be saved, guys? So it is going to be saved over here, inside this particular directory, inside the stage 1 adapter, as well as the merge model. So this code is very easy, very easy to understand, right? Now, in the second stage, what we are doing, so if you will look into the second stage.
Sunny: So we are going to be load the instruction data. Okay, so here we are going to be format the instruction data.
Sunny: And we are going to be… convert that instruction data into the Hugging Face format, okay? So my instruction data will be ready after this particular stage, right?
Sunny: And, what we'll do, guys, after that, guys, we are going to be load the model, Stage 2 model.
Sunny: We are giving the stage 1 model. Wherever we left at the Stage 1, we are giving that model only. We are going to be loaded as a base model and a tokenizer. Then we are going to be prepared the model for the training, okay?
Sunny: Then, guys, here is my SFT configuration. Now, if you will look into this particular configuration, so we are passing packing is equal to false. That means, guys, we are doing an instruction training, and the
Sunny: Inside the text, basically, we have an instruction, input and output. So, according to that, it's going to be focused. Then we have a trainer, okay, then we are going to be past the trainer, means our training will be started over here. Then we are going to be save the model, save the adapter, as well as the merged model, okay?
Sunny: Then, after that, guys, what will happen? We are going to be load… see, this is the data set preparation for the third stage, for the preference tuning.
Sunny: So, we have a prompt, chosen and rejected, okay? We are formatting a data over here, so in the text column, it is going to be format, right? Now, here you can see the data set. See, this is a complete data set. In the single string, we are going to be format the data.
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, what we'll do, so here, you can see the load model. We are going to be loaded from the previous stage.
Sunny: Now, again, the same thing. Here we have a DPO configuration, DPO trainer, okay? And then we are going to be start the training. And finally, we are going to be save the adapter, as well as the merge model.
Sunny: So, this is all we are doing throughout this entire three stages, and it is pretty much inspired from the Hugging Face only, but this time the framework is going to be changed, okay? Now here, I haven't written the inferencing code, so I already given you the inferencing code inside this standalone unslot file. You can take the inferencing code from here.
Sunny: And then you can do the inferencing inside this particular file. Now, I have written some theoretical point, guys. You can focus over there, over here. So, non-instruction tuning over the raw PDF, using the accepted trainer.
Sunny: and the domain language effect. So this is what we are teaching to the model. Instruction tuning, instruction in the response, we are doing using the SFT trainer.
Sunny: how to use… how to answer user instruction, okay? Then preference in the DPO trainer, preference in the DPO stage.
Sunny: From chosen and rejected. We are doing it using a DPO trainer. Now, here I am seeing which answer is better. So, whatever I was explaining you over the blackboard, same thing I have explained, same thing I have written over here as well. Got it? Now, guys, here you can see some other parameters. So, dataset format.
Sunny: So, see, that is a dataset format for the stage 1, dataset format for the stage 2, okay? And this is some…
Sunny: detail of it, okay? This one. Basically, why difference? Now, here you can see trainer, SFT trainer for the stage 1, stage 2, okay?
Sunny: Now, here, dataset text field, text, text would be over here, okay? In the non-instruction and the instruction, it would be same.
Sunny: Now, packing-wise, guys, it would be true over here, it would be false, right? Now, over here, if you will read the description of it, so I written the description, it is in a Hindi, let me translate into English. Raw paragraph, packing multiple paragraph, sequence mein, combine kart the right. Instructor data shed mein, prompt response boundary, preserve karnihotia, right? So, this is the complete, basically what? Difference, right? So, let me summarize in the English.
Sunny: is, in the raw data, basically, paragraph is the small one, right? So what this packing is doing is going to be, converting multiple paragraph into the single sequence combo. And inside the instruction data set, what we have, we have a prompt on the response boundary, which is going to be preserved automatically, right?
Sunny: Over here, what we are going to be use, how we get discriminate it in the stage 1 non-instruction fine-tuning, we are keeping packing is equal to true. In the stage 2, basically, we are keeping it false. Okay, and this is all the other parameter, which I mentioned, the difference, basically, so you can read it out.
Sunny: Then, guys, here you can see all the components of the unslot. So, fast language model, it is a source of the model. GetFeft model, okay, style logic, we… which we are getting. So, getPeft model, we were having inside the hugging Face, but here we have this fast language model, and the LoRa… for the LoRa, we have one more method.
Sunny: An SFT trainer is going to be same, which we are having from the Hugging Face TRL, DPO trainer, okay, and then onslaught patching on top of the DPO. So this is all the component, basically.
Sunny: We have. Now, let me remove this particular line, I think this is not correct.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: This one.
Sunny: I think now it is fine. So, fast language model, SF trainer, deputenant, and sloth patching. So, this is all the theoretical point on… through which you can go through, and you can go through with this entire file. Believe me, guys, easily you will understand everything. It's very, very easy to understand, right? Now, tell me, guys, this onslaught is clear.
Sunny: So, all the three files are clear, Hugging Face, Unsloth, and this end-to-end with the Onsloth. It's your time to revise the thing, I'm not giving anything now. Now, in the next class, guys, what I'll do, basically, let me write over here. So, we have to start the rack chapter, but guys, before that, a couple of things is remaining.
Sunny: So, one solution I'll show you with the OpenAI, so that you will be familiar how to do the OpenAI-based training, and some other data set. So, I have, the process is going to be same, the data set is going to be different. So, one dataset I'll take for the vision one, okay? And the other dataset I can take for the embedding one.
Sunny: Right? M, baiting 1.
Sunny: And some theoretical concepts are there. So… Third one is Theory Tickle.
Sunny: concepts.
Sunny: So we can understand about the LoRa and all. So these many things is remaining. I think, we can complete it within a session itself.
Sunny: So, within a session, we can complete this entire thing, and after that, guys, we can start with the rag, okay?
Sunny: I think we cannot, we cannot fine-tune the cloud model.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Fine, so let's, wrap up the session now. I will see you in the next class, guys. If you don't have any sort of a doubt, you can drop off.
Sunny: And, guys, tell me, how was the session? Did you like the session, yes or no?
Sunny: If you like the session, you can give a quick thumbs up.
Sunny: Just a second, let me check the feedback.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so, fine. I think, you need to revise the entire thing. Just go through with this entire, code and all.
Sunny: Everything is going to be clear, okay?
Sunny: So I've given you all the code, you can check out. And I raised the poll also, you can.
Sunny: Give your rating over here. Got it?
Sunny: Fine, so thank you guys, thank you very much for joining this session. Let me give you the handwritten notes as well.
Sunny: Guys, I've given you the handwritten notes also, please check out with the GitHub.
Sunny: Okay, fine guys, I think we can close the session. Good night to all of you, let's, again meet in the next, class.
Sunny: With the new concept and all, and then we'll close this chapter, okay?
Sunny: So, fine, thank you, bye-bye, take care, I'll see you in the next class. If you don't have any doubt, you can drop the session.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Yeah, good night, guys. Bye.
Sunny: Guys, a short break before starting with the doubt session, then we'll start the doubt session, okay? Thank you.
Sunny: Okay, guys, let's start with the doubt class. Bhagwandas, Sam, Nitesh, Manish… guys, anyone is there, please.
bhagwandas armani: I'm here.
Sunny: Go ahead with the doubt.
bhagwandas armani: Yeah, so you… how can we drain the…
Sunny: Okay, maybe the other hand.
Sunny: Yeah, Bhagwandas, what's your doubt?
bhagwandas armani: So, how can I train the cloud models, like, Mistral or, the ChatGPTO for… okay, I want to retrain them, or if I… this one.
Sunny: Chatgpt, sorry, OpenAI model you can train.
bhagwandas armani: Okay.
Sunny: I'll show you in the next class.
bhagwandas armani: Okay, and the second thing I have is, let us say I want to train, I want to train the data for the, investment analysis, or the funds benchmark, like, let's take a case of mutual funds, okay? I want to train them. So, can you suggest me how can I get started on that? Based on whatever you taught, okay, if I want to learn and train that, okay?
Sunny: You can do in a same way, you can follow my, this three-stage pipeline. If you have a raw data, you can start with a non-instruction tuning, custom raw instruction tuning. If you have question-answer data, or if you don't have them, you can prepare the non-instruction data, you can understand how to do that.
Sunny: In the previous classes, I've shown you the bay, right? How you can basically prepare the non-instruction data. Then, on top of this, you can perform the non-instruction tuning as well.
Sunny: So this, like, fine-tuning, three-stage fine-tuning, code, you can follow as a boilerplate code for any sort of a fine-tuning, and you can, perform on any data casset. Got it?
bhagwandas armani: Okay, now I've trained the data. I will get some, let us say, the case of mutual funds, okay? I downloaded the data, I've trained the model. But when a user prompts it, let us say, you want to invest using this model.
bhagwandas armani: Hypothetical case, okay? It has to ask more questions than, like, where do you want to invest, what is your invest strategy, and all, invest style and all. So, how do I do that, France, basically?
Sunny: You have trained that, and after that, you can do the inferencing, no? Simple, as simple as that.
Sunny: Okay. Okay. So, see, directly don't go with the model training, you can build a rag also on top of it. So you can keep the dataset in any vector database, and then on top of it, you can build a RAG system. So that we'll understand in the next chapter. So…
Sunny: If you wanted to do the fine-tuning just for your curiosity purpose, or wanted to check whether it is working fine or not, you can do. You can, basically utilize the same, code base, okay, and on top of it, you can do your own fine-tuning.
Sunny: But again, if you're doing it for the real time, then better. You can, use… you can build the rack first and check whether you're getting the answer or not. If you're not getting, then fine-tune the model, and on top of it, again, build the rag, okay?
bhagwandas armani: Okay. Yeah.
bhagwandas armani: Thank you.
Sunny: No, thank you.
Sunny: Okay, Nitesh, what's your doubt?
niteshjain: Yeah, hi, Sunny.
niteshjain: Hey, Jenitha, first of all, thank you for the session today, it was really informative.
niteshjain: I only have one doubt regarding this, the class which we are using, right? Like, for a Hugging Phase 1, we… we use the train library, right? Even Hugging Face, the TRL, the TRL library is also, or the package also has the SFP, right?
Sunny: Whoa.
niteshjain: Because also, we can use the SFD, right?
Sunny: wo, actually mein ek rapper hai, aging face ke upari, meinflap kochalakse nahi.
Sunny: Okay. Toh Jaba model load karte hain, me ako deka taong, aap… Up Hindi Samastha, correct?
niteshjain: Yeah, yeah.
Sunny: Okay. So, if you will look into this Hugging Face solution.
Sunny: Just look into the import statement.
Sunny: Load dataset.
Sunny: Auto tokenizer.
Sunny: Automodel Causal LM, right? SFT trainer, SFT configuration. So this TRL library ana, joho Hugging Face pahi bana yay. Hugging face nahi banaya.
niteshjain: Right.
Sunny: Sticker?
Sunny: fast language model is ko use kar hai, ana?
Sunny: SFT trainer and configuration, same mein. So, iska matlab kya hua, iska matlab ye hua, ki ha model kojab load karte hain memori mein, us taimi kuch configuration usme ad orah hai, jo anslot kan jo rapper wo adorai. Oki iskrase ham ko meljaray.
Sunny: configuration ke saath mein, then same SFT trainer ke use karke ha musko train kar sakte hain.
Sunny: Samjab mechanical room.
niteshjain: Yeah, exactly.
Sunny: Difference kapar, difference Kaeper, difference of yapar, actually.
niteshjain: Right, right, but when we were… yesterday, when we were doing this training, through Hugging Face Library, we used, actually, the train, train… trainer library.
Sunny: agarap de ko ghee.
Sunny: If you will go and check with the previous class code, right? So, let me go back.
Sunny: This is the previous class code.
Sunny: So, this is training, this is sun cleaning.
Sunny: dataset… load tokenizer.
Sunny: load model.
Sunny: Bits and bytes.
Sunny: LoRa configuration.
Sunny: Okay, so here is our trainer now.
Sunny: Let's see which, class we are using. We are using this trainer class.
niteshjain: Premier class, right, yeah.
Sunny: Ano? So, they go kaya, you know, trainer class, native class hai, Hugging Face. De ko kaase import karah.
niteshjain: Transformers like water.
Sunny: transformer, say.
Sunny: or SFT class aapde ko. Class import kar hain, TRLC. Toh, nahy update mein nao une bola, ki instruction fine-tuning karna hai, toh supervise fine-tuner trainer use karlo y Wala. Us seh mat karot trainer seh. Toh yek nahya update hai is library meh, that's it.
Sunny: Toh asebi kiaja sakhta hai, aur issebi ki ayja sekta hai. Matlab ye jo trainer wala hai na, is sebi kiaja sakhta hai na? Cholu apan ni seamed out, chat GPT saber clear karle thee. Toh day come naya chat open karke aapko dekhataw.
Sunny: trainer class,
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Abih Miripasek, Yudusra Klasa.
Sunny: SFTrader.
Sunny: Right? Now I'm asking.
Sunny: We are using… both.
Sunny: glasses for the… Instruction.
Sunny: Tuning.
Sunny: How it is.
Sunny: Possible.
Sunny: Can you explain?
Sunny: In detail. Okay? Web search bin enabled karate toh ye latest information, internet sin kalka.
niteshjain: to train a class used kar sakte hain, right?
Sunny: accepted in a semi-rega instruction tutoring kelaya.
niteshjain: Wow.
Sunny: Difference when he unlock my Jamkar, right?
niteshjain: Right, and it made a lot of difference throughout the confusion. ESC, we are doing apple to orange kind of comparison, right? So, when we're doing phase versus unslot, so here we started using this SFT, and then when we were in last class, we were only using only Hugging phase, we're using the trigger class. So, was there any specific purpose, or was not really, really not a…
Sunny: No, no, no. See, here it is also giving you the answer. Trainer is a base general training engine. Matlam, Purana engine, right? SFT trainer ka, Specialized Instruction Tuning Trainer built using the trainer.
niteshjain: And I'll actually hang on top of the trainer, probably, just for anyway. SFT?
Sunny: wrapper around the transformer trainer. Aging fist bowl dry cheese, actually.
niteshjain: Okay, okay. So this is… this is not, I mean, for a non-instruction training, we cannot use it, right? Because it's all SFT.
Sunny: SF trainer use kar sakte, non instruction training ke liye bh. O pecking wala hau parameter se kill na yapko, aapkar sakty ho. Even chatjiburi se push hogi toh aapko bataadega, sukar sakhtap asa.
niteshjain: Okay, okay, so this is… and then anyway, even for Unslot also, once the model is ready, like, the final margin model, we can anyway put into the hugging phase, there's no difference, right? Because at the end of the letter, it's a repository, right?
Sunny: Correct, correct. Kahi se bhi train karke model,
niteshjain: Okay, and apart from these two, basically, the framework, the Unslot and the Hugging Phase 1, there are others as well, which I found somewhere, like the LM something… I don't know, I mean, there are three, four.
Sunny: Axolotel is there, Llama Factory is there. Okay?
niteshjain: Okay, okay. So, in general, in industry, basically, what is preferred? Because in my organization, basically, Hugging Face is banned. I mean, I cannot easily Hugging Face. So…
Sunny: jo kit fine-tuning prefer karte hain. Har kwit company fine-tuning nahi kartia, men aapko bola, right?
niteshjain: In our organization, there is a big data scientist and kind of an AI engineering department, I'm also part of that. So, there are a lot of trainings that are happening, right? So the only thing is that we are a financial institutions, so the open source things are really very…
niteshjain: Very, kind of, not promoted in terms of the open access to the internet, right?
niteshjain: So, maybe we have to get those libraries approved from Hugging Face, but generally, if I cannot… I cannot really open the Hugging Face directly, and can log into Hugging Face from my corporate network.
niteshjain: maybe, maybe we can get that libraries scanned, approved, and then maybe we can use it within the on-prem? But I was just thinking, maybe if this is also permitted, then, is there an industry-specific, enterprise-wide,
niteshjain: And by which would be more preferred?
Sunny: Then I think you will have to clarify with those folks only which library they are preferring, okay?
niteshjain: Okay, but what do you mean to say that Hugging Face is the one very widely used, right, for a training?
Sunny: Ha, matla base wahi hai, sare training ka, toh, that is widely being used, okay?
niteshjain: Okay. Yeah, this helps. Thanks, thanks, Juni.
Sunny: Yeah, thank you, Nitesh.
Sunny: Next out, jyoti Manish?
manish: Yeah, actually, my question is that, basically, in what circumstances you'll go for that fine-tuning, if we already have the RAG?
Sunny: So, if I wanted to train the model, right, if I wanted to teach the model, if I wanted to change the native behavior of the model, in that case, we will go with the fine-tuning, okay?
manish: So, when we take that, that is… suppose if you're getting the answer from the RAG, and, if,
Sunny: If you're getting the answer from REG, then no need to go through with the fine-tuning.
manish: Okay, so suppose, just, for any one example, you know, give, like, in, like, it said,
manish: Like, what in what, because… because here, the confidence score or the accuracy didn't matter, because here, it is endless, right?
Sunny: So…
manish: with a rag, if you use, and the… if the answer is coming correct or not. So this is… so here, the evaluation is endless, like, here, here, like, we… when we… look, to take that… that decision, it is very tough, like, when we should go.
Sunny: Correct, correct. Uskel matlap specialization, dedicated team, or dedicated engineer shayaute, right?
Sunny: Tovo karna, like, it's, like, itself is a challenge. So, it's a company's fine-tuning, self-training, prefer nahi karte. Karti bhi, asana y bilkuri ni karti hai, companies will do that, right? Even still doing.
Sunny: But again, like in enterprise solution, banana hotemap ragwek bana dit, actually.
manish: So, yay, Avi jo, Nitesh Jubhutarate, because he was telling that key, this hugging Face is not an, like, we, in the, at the enterprise level, we can't use, like, here they will not approve. So, in that case, which model we should use for the.
Sunny: Model, no. No model. Framework, actually, they were talking about. Company can create their own framework also, right? So they can create some… their own wrapper on top of the hugging Face. That is not a big deal for them. Okay, so, if a direct hugging Face is Ben, then?
Sunny: some other alternative means they have hosted the model in some other places, they are… they have created some wrapper for the loading the model, and they are using that. Okay, their own SDK, actually.
manish: Okay.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Okay, any more doubt, guys? Otherwise, I'll close the session.
Sunny: Okay, Amarnath, Ramchandru.
Sunny: I'm not…
Ramachandra EDA: One question.
Sunny: Yeah, Marnath, please go ahead.
amar nath: So, I'm in New Jersey. Thanks for this. By the way, I just want to share the good news. I'm joining as a senior executive for a leading bank, okay? So, thanks for everything. You helped me, and also, this is more on the legacy modernization through the bank.
amar nath: I'm more on the AI strategy side. I need some help here. I've been attending your classes, one or two classes I missed because of other meetings. I'm going to record. My question to you is simple. Let me share the screen to you. I am missing the assignments because of my tight schedule, I'm not able to… I'm doing… I want to finish the assignments first, okay?
amar nath: Can I share my screen? I'll show you what's the problem I'm having it. My thing, my GitHub, this statues are screwed up. That's causing the mess.
Sunny: you can share it. I'm promoting as a penalized locator.
amar nath: Join as a panelist.
amar nath: So, if you look at here, it has got subset of this also. I just took today itself. Are you seeing my screen, by the way?
Sunny: No, you need to share. Please share that.
amar nath: The ones are outside it, shall… Okay… Posting now?
Sunny: I can see.
amar nath: Now, if you look at it, this also puts subs… I don't know, how come… how can I do a clean, delete, and then do one more? I did a clean, delete, and then still it is not deleting this.
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, you can do one thing. See, you can create your own folder, one is your folder, right? There you can do your own work, you can create a folder and all. One you can keep for my GitHub only.
Sunny: So, just delete it from here, clone it separately in some other folder, okay? Keep my code over there only, and whatever you are doing, any customization and all, do it in a separate folder. Got it?
amar nath: Okay, but can you walk through me here? I'm getting lost here, so if I have to do… delete, how do I…
Sunny: Oh, deleted.
Sunny: Then clone it in some other folder, okay?
amar nath: Okay, this, okay. Okay, how do we know at this point of time, in GitHub, mine is in sync with what you have, the latest and greatest?
Sunny: See, that's what I'm saying now. If you have cloned my repository, okay, then don't do any changes over there inside that particular folder. Otherwise, it will be very difficult for you to manage the codebase from my code and your one, because you will get lots of merge conflict.
Sunny: Getting my point. So keep your code, your repository, your changes, or some other place, keep my code, my repository, in a different folder. Got it?
amar nath: I got it, sir, but my question is simple. How do I make sure this is in sync now? Can we check… is there a way I can check this is in sync with…
Sunny: Just write the git pull. If it is fetching the latest changes, you are in sync, okay?
amar nath: So it's only up-to-date, okay.
Sunny: already uploaded.
amar nath: Okay, the second question to you is, let's look at the assignments. Okay, where is assignments here? Where do I see assignments?
Sunny: Assignment folder is there. Scroll up, you will get that.
amar nath: Where is it?
Sunny: Scroll up, scroll up.
amar nath: Screwing up, alright.
Sunny: Up, up, here only, you will have to up.
Sunny: Up kuro, scroll up, karoo up, scroll up karo.
Sunny: Okay.
amar nath: Okay, yeah, okay. So, I… this is what I've never finished it. Now, I'll tell you my challenges. I understand everything from you, conceptually, glasses are fantastic. When it goes and I get stuck up somewhere, especially on the configuration, not the coding-wise. I can code and everything.
amar nath: some configuration issue I observed, then I go back to Copilot, and Copilot, I go here and chat it. Still, some of the issues are getting confused with the Python versions.
amar nath: every time I gen… the Python… some of the works on 3.11, I think you are 3.1 on everything, am I right?
Sunny: got it.
amar nath: So, this gets messed up. Now, if… based on the latest and greatest here, I must be able to run all of the assignments with 3.11. Am I right? Am I right?
Sunny: Correct. You can do it with the 3.11 itself, and see, I think I already told you, right, so which Python version you have to use for which solution, and how to do that using the UV. So, if you are following my previous classes, everything you will get there, right?
amar nath: Okay. See, for the challenge, for example, if I get stuck up here, I need to go up, how do I know this assignment 1 is for which class?
Sunny: See, Assignment 1, basically, it is after the encoding and embedding, after the first module. Getting my point. So…
Sunny: If you're following the classes in a sequence, you will get to know it is related to which class. If you want to get more visibility, then I will edit the name of this assignment folder, okay? I will mention the class name or the module name also, for the better understanding. Got it?
amar nath: Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's easy. Then I can go back to the video again, you know what I mean? My short-term memory doesn't work, so I get stuck up, you know what, you know what, let's go and watch the video there, what is there? Then I know where I'm making a mistake. It'll be easy for me, so…
Sunny: Mmm.
Sunny: Okay.
amar nath: If you can do it, that'll be great, okay? Or how do I best do it, or if you are going to do this today, so that I can get the latest in the latest, it'll be easy for me, because I don't want to go through all of the… or you can show me…
Sunny: Yeah, I'm done for today. I think I already updated all the changes, and you got it also. Just check out the latest folder, Class 20. Date-wise, I'm mentioning that. Just check out the latest one.
amar nath: Okay.
amar nath: Okay, sounds good. Thank you, sir. Okay.
Sunny: Thank you. Next doubt, any more doubt?
Jyoti: So, yes, sir, go to this side.
Sunny: Okay, guys, give me a moment, okay? Coming back. Jyoti and Ramchandra, I'll take your doubt, okay?
Sunny: Yeah, Jyoti, please go ahead.
Jyoti: Sir, actually, I want to know whatever fine-tuning we are doing. So, is it applicable on the, like, video reco- speech recognition also, or video analysis also? Like, for criminal records, we are usually doing both the things, right? So, is it applicable on that case also?
Sunny: This is not a multi-model, on which we are doing a fine-tuning, it's a text model, right?
Sunny: So, multimodal-wise, I'll show you in the next class. Got it?
Jyoti: Okay, okay.
Jyoti: And my second question is not related to today's topic. Basically, actually, I'm having 12 years of experience.
Jyoti: And right now, I'm working as a, basically Power BI and ETL link. So, like, even if I'm writing in my resume, like, I know this much in AI, I'm not getting calls, so how… can you give a bit guidance?
Jyoti: Oh my goodness.
Sunny: mention at least 2 years of experience there, okay? So, you will have to learn, at least that much, where you can mention, or where you can showcase 2 year of experience.
Sunny: We are going to showcase two years of experience, then I think, your chances would be high to get a call. Got it.
Jyoti: Okay, okay.
Sunny: If you can get a project, AI project in your current organization also, that would be a very great thing, because there you will…
Jyoti: But I'm not getting it.
Jyoti: Yeah, so…
Sunny: Just keep trying, keep trying. After some time, you'll get, okay?
Jyoti: Okay, okay, okay, okay, thank you, sir.
Sunny: Thank you.
Sunny: Yeah, Charles, or Ramshur, and anyone, Ramshur, anyone is there.
Ramachandra EDA: No.
Ramachandra EDA: Hi, sir, I have a question that, means we have that RAG, based upon the RAG response, evaluation after, whether we need to, we need to decide whether we need to go for the LLM, fine-tuning or not. That's correct?
Sunny: No, sir, it's not like that. LLM fine-tuning is just a way of tweaking the permanent knowledge of the model, right? RAG, basically, to take a model on top of it, like, use some retrieve information.
Sunny: And using some prompt and all, generate the augmented answer, okay? So, whether rag or fine-tuning, there actually, generally, we prefer the RAG, because there, the training headache is not there.
Sunny: The pipeline is easy to build, okay? And easily, we can generate our desired answer. So, we generally follow the rag on top of the fine-tuning, but still, companies wanted to tweak the fundamental knowledge of the model. They don't want to be used any other model from any other companies. They wanted to use their own model after the fine-tuning.
Sunny: Then, in third case, we can do the fine-tuning. On top of it, we can build the rag. Got it? So, whether rag or fine-tuning, this is the wrong question, okay? Even after doing… create… doing the fine-tuning, we can build a rag on top of it.
Sunny: Get a good point.
Ramachandra EDA: Correct, correct.
Sunny: Yeah.
Ramachandra EDA: Yeah, because more and more knowledge… I mean, especially while dealing with private data and all, RAG is compulsory, it seems.
Sunny: Corvet.
Ramachandra EDA: Yeah, but, this is, this is to fine-tune our, whatever the LLMs we are using, because we are working on, we are taking the base model of the LLMs, and we are training,
Ramachandra EDA: Based upon our customer… custom data we are training and we are using in our application. That's the thing.
Sunny: Got it, got it, right.
Ramachandra EDA: Yeah, yeah, thank you, thank you, sir. This is the only question, yeah.
Sunny: Thank you.
Ramachandra EDA: goodness.
Sunny: Yeah, Charles, what is your doubt?
Charles Fon: Yes.
Sunny: Yo, please go ahead.
Sunny: I think you are on mute. Please unmute yourself.
Charles Fon: Yes. Can you hear me now?
Sunny: Yeah, I can hear you.
Charles Fon: Yeah, I just wanted to find out which other course can I pick, alongside with this one.
Sunny: So, which goes from the same, academy, right? Kish Academy?
Sunny: You can see, first you can compare.
Charles Fon: Another one coming on the 21st. I saw this, another one coming on the 21st. So I don't know whether it would be conflicting. It was the same thing they're teaching.
Charles Fon: to find out from you.
Sunny: Yeah, see, if you wanted to learn everything from scratch, right? So this course is a good one.
Sunny: a fine-tuning diagonal, everything is combined here.
Sunny: If you wanted to master in the agent only, then you can follow the 21st batch. So I would suggest you first follow this batch, complete it, and on top of it, after that, you can complete the 21st batch, okay? Which is going to be Start Agent DeGai 3.0. Got it?
Charles Fon: Okay.
Sunny: Yeah.
Charles Fon: Okay, thank you.
Sunny: Thank you.
Sunny: Okay, guys, I think I clarified all the doubts. There is no much doubt today.
Sunny: Maybe you want some more time for the revise the thing.
Sunny: So, fine, I'll see you in the next class. Good night, take care, and have a great day. Thank you.